A Series of Unfortunate Events 9 - The Carnivorous Carnival AS erie sofU nf ortunateEvents A Series of Unfortunate Events Book the Ninth The Carnivorous Carnival Lemony Snicket CHAPTER One When my workday is over, and I have closed my notebook, hidden my pen, and sawed holes in my rented canoe so that it cannot be found, I often like to spend the evening in conversation with my few surviving friends. Sometimes we discuss literature. Sometimes we discuss the people who are trying to destroy us, and if there is any hope of escaping from them. And sometimes we discuss frightening and troublesome animals that might be nearby, and this topic always leads to much disagreement over which part of a frightening and troublesome beast is the most frightening and troublesome. Some say the teeth of the beast, because teeth are used for eating children, and often their parents, and gnawing their bones. Some say the claws of the beast, because claws are used for ripping things to shreds. And some say the hair of the beast, because hair can make allergic people sneeze. But I always insist that the most frightening part of any beast is its belly, for the simple reason that if you are seeing the belly of the beast it means you have already seen the teeth of the beast and the claws of the beast and even the hair of the beast, and now you are trapped and there is probably no hope for you. For this reason, the phrase “in the belly of the beast” has become an expression which means “inside some terrible place with little chance of escaping safely,” and it is not an expression one should look forward to using. I’m sorry to tell you that this book will use the expression “the belly of the beast” three times before it is over, not counting all of the times I have already used “the belly of the beast” in order to warn you of all the times “the belly of the beast” will appear. Three times over the course of this story, characters will be inside some terrible place with little chance of escaping safely, and for that reason I would put this book down and escape safely yourself, because this woeful story is so very dark and wretched and damp that the experience of reading it will make you feel as if you are in the belly of the beast, and that time doesn’t count either. The Baudelaire orphans were in the belly of the beast-that is, in the dark and cramped trunk of a long, black automobile. Unless you are a small, portable object, you probably prefer to sit in a seat when you are traveling by automobile, so you can lean back against the upholstery, look out the window at the scenery going by, and feel safe and secure with a seat belt fastened low and tight across your lap. But the Baudelaires could not lean back, and their bodies were aching from squishing up against one another for several hours. They had no window to look out of, only a few bullet holes in the trunk made from some violent encounter I have not found the courage to research. And they felt anything but safe and secure as they thought about the other passengers in the car, and tried to imagine where they were going. The driver of the automobile was a man named Count Olaf, a wicked person with one eyebrow instead of two and a greedy desire for money instead of respect for other people. The Baudelaires had first met Count Olaf after receiving the news that their parents had been killed in a terrible fire, and had soon discovered he was only interested in the enormous fortune their mother and father had left behind. With unceasing determination-a phrase which here means “no matter where the three children went”- Count Olaf had pursued them, trying one dastardly technique after another to get his hands on their fortune. So far he had been unsuccessful, although he’d had plenty of help from his girlfriend, Esme Squalor-an equally wicked, if more fashionable, person who was now sitting beside him in the front seat of the automobile-and an assortment of assistants, including a bald man with an enormous nose, two women who liked to wear white powder all over their faces, and a nasty man who had hooks instead of hands. All of these people were sitting in the back of the automobile, where the children could sometimes hear them speaking over the roar of the engine and the sounds of the road. One would think, with such a wretched crew as traveling companions, that the Baudelaire siblings would have found some other way to travel rather than sneaking into the trunk, but the three children had been fleeing from circumstances even more frightening and dangerous than Olaf and his assistants and there had been no time to be choosy. But as their journey wore on, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny grew more and more worried about their situation. The sunlight coming in through the bullet holes faded to evening, and the road beneath them turned bumpy and rough, and the Baudelaire orphans tried to imagine where it was they were going and what would happen when they got there. Violet, who was the eldest of the Baudelaires, stretched to place her hand on Klaus’s stiff shoulder, and held her baby sister, Sunny, even tighter, as if to communicate with her siblings without speaking. Esme Squalor was constantly talking about whether or not things were in-a word she liked to use for “stylish”-but the children were more interested in overhearing where the car was taking them. The hinterlands were a vast and empty place very far from the very outskirts of the city, without even a small village for hundreds of miles. Long ago the Baudelaire parents had promised they would bring their children there someday to see the famous hinterlands sunsets. Klaus, who was a voracious reader, had read descriptions of the sunsets that had made the whole family eager to go, and Violet, who had a real talent for inventing things, had even begun building a solar oven so the family could enjoy grilled cheese sandwiches as they watched the dark blue light spread eerily over the hinterlands cacti while the sun slowly sank behind the distant and frosty Mortmain Mountains. Never did the three siblings imagine that they would visit the hinterlands by themselves, stuffed in the trunk of a car of a villain. “Are we there yet?” The voice of the hook-handed man broke a long silence. “I told you not to ask me that anymore,” replied Olaf with a snarl. “We’ll get there when we get there, and that is that.” “Could we possibly make a short stop?” asked one of the white-faced women. “I noticed a sign for a rest station in a few miles.” “We don’t have time to stop anywhere,” Olaf said sharply. “If you needed to use the bathroom, you should have gone before we left.” “But the hospital was on fire,” the woman whined. “Yes, let’s stop,” said the bald man. “We haven’t had anything to eat since lunch, and my stomach is grumbling.” “We can’t stop,” Esme said. “There are no restaurants out here in the hinterlands that are in.” “Boss, are you sure it’s safe to be way out here?” asked the hook-handed man. “If the police come looking for us, there’ll be no place to hide.” “We could always disguise ourselves again,” the bald man said. “Everything we need is in the trunk of the car. “We don’t need to hide,” Olaf replied, “and we don’t need to disguise ourselves, either. Thanks to that silly reporter at The Daily Punctilio, the whole world thinks I’m dead, remember?” “You’re dead,” Esme said with a nasty chuckle, “and the three Baudelaire brats are murderers. We don’t need to hide-we need to celebrate!” “We can’t celebrate yet,” Olaf said. “There are two last things we need to do. First, we need to destroy the last piece of evidence that could send us to jail.” “The Snicket file,” Esme said, and the Baudelaires shuddered in the trunk. The three children had found one page of the Snicket file, which was now safe in Klaus’s pocket. It was difficult to tell from only one page, but the Snicket file seemed to contain information about a survivor of a fire, and the Baudelaires were eager to find the remaining pages before Olaf did. “Yes, of course,” the hook-handed man said. “We have to find the Snicket file. But what’s the second thing?” “We have to find the Baudelaires, you idiot,” Olaf snarled. “If we don’t find them, then we can’t steal their fortune, and all of my schemes will be a waste.” “I haven’t found your schemes to be a waste,” said one of the white-faced women. “I’ve enjoyed them very much, even if we haven’t gotten the fortune.” “Do you think all three of those bratty orphans got out of the hospital alive?” the bald man asked. “Those children seem to have all the luck in the world,” Count Olaf said, “so they’re all probably alive and well, but it would sure make things easier if one or two of them burned to a crisp. We only need one of them alive to get the fortune.” “I hope it’s Sunny,” the hook-handed man said. “It was fun putting her in a cage, and I look forward to doing it again.” “I myself hope it’s Violet,” Olaf said. “She’s the prettiest.” “I don’t care who it is,” Esme said. “I just want to know where they are.” “Well, Madame Lulu will know,” Olaf said. “With her crystal ball, she’ll be able to tell us where the orphans are, where the file is, and anything else we want to know.” “I never believed in things like crystal balls,” remarked a white-faced woman, “but when this Madame Lulu started telling you how to find the Baudelaires every time they escaped, I learned that fortune-telling is real.” “Stick with me,” Olaf said, “and you’ll learn lots of new things. Oh, here’s the turn for Rarely Ridden Road. We’re almost there.” The car lurched to the left, and the Baudelaires lurched with it, rolling to the left-hand side of the trunk, along with the many items Olaf kept in his car to help with his dastardly plots. Violet tried not to cough as one of his fake beards tickled her throat. Klaus held his hand up to his face so that a sliding toolbox wouldn’t break his glasses. And Sunny shut her mouth tightly so she wouldn’t get one of Olaf’s dirty undershirts tangled in her sharp teeth. Rarely Ridden Road was even bumpier than the highway they had been traveling on, and the car made so much noise that the children could not hear any more of the conversation until Olaf pulled the automobile to a creaky stop. “Are we there yet?” the hook-handed man asked. “Of course we’re here, you fool,” Olaf said. “Look, there’s the sign-Caligari Carnival.” “Where is Madame Lulu?” asked the bald man. “Where do you think?” Esme asked, and everyone laughed. The doors of the automobile opened with a scraping sound, and the car lurched again as everyone piled out. “Should I get the wine out of the trunk, boss?” the bald man asked. The Baudelaires froze. “No,” Count Olaf replied. “Madame Lulu will have plenty of refreshments for us.” The three children lay very still and listened as Olaf and his troupe trudged away from the car. Their footsteps grew fainter and fainter until the siblings could hear nothing but the evening breeze as it whistled through the bullet holes, and at last it seemed safe for the Baudelaire orphans to speak to one another. “What are we going to do?” Violet whispered, pushing the beard away from her. “Merrill,” Sunny said. Like many people her age, the youngest Baudelaire sometimes used language that was difficult for some people to understand, but her siblings knew at once that she meant something like, “We’d better get out of this trunk.” “As soon as possible,” Klaus agreed. “We don’t know how soon Olaf and his troupe will return. Violet, do you think you can invent something to get us out of here?” “It shouldn’t be too hard,” Violet said, “with all this stuff in the trunk.” She reached out her hand and felt around until she found the mechanism that was keeping the trunk closed. “I’ve studied this kind of latch before,” she said. “All I need to move it is a loop of strong twine. Feel around and see if we can find something.” “There’s something wrapped around my left arm,” Klaus said, squirming around. “It feels like it might be part of the turban Olaf wore when he disguised himself as Coach Genghis.” “That’s too thick,” Violet said. “It needs to slip between two parts of the lock.” “Semja!” Sunny said. “That’s my shoelace, Sunny,” Klaus said. “We’ll save that as a last resort,” Violet said. “We can’t have you tripping all over the place if we’re going to escape. Wait, I think I found something underneath the spare tire.” “What is it?” “I don’t know,” Violet said. “It feels like a skinny cord with something round and flat at the end.” “I bet it’s a monocle,” Klaus said. “You know, that funny eyepiece Olaf wore when he was pretending to be Gunther, the auctioneer.” “I think you’re right,” Violet said. “Well, this monocle helped Olaf with his scheme, and now it’s going to help us with ours. Sunny, try to move over a bit so I can see if this will work.” Sunny squirmed over as far as she could, and Violet reached around her siblings and slipped the cord of Olaf’s monocle around the lock of the trunk. The three children listened as Violet wiggled her invention around the latch, and after only a few seconds they heard a quiet click! and the door of the trunk swung open with a long, slow creeeak. As the cool air rushed in, the Baudelaires stayed absolutely still in case the noise of the trunk caught Olaf’s attention, but apparently he and his assistants were too far away to hear, because after a few seconds the children could hear nothing but the chirping of the evening crickets and the faint barking of a dog. The Baudelaires looked at one another, squinting in the dim light, and without another word Violet and Klaus climbed out of the trunk and then lifted their sister out into the night. The famous hinterlands sunset was just ending, and everything the children saw was bathed in dark blue, as if Count Olaf had driven them into the depths of the ocean. There was a large wooden sign with the words CALIGARI CARNIVAL printed in oldfashioned script, along with a faded painting of a lion chasing a frightened little boy. Behind the sign was a small booth advertising tickets for sale, and a phone booth that gleamed in the blue light. Behind these two booths was an enormous roller coaster, a phrase which here means “a series of small carts where people can sit and race up and down steep and frightening hills of tracks, for no discernible reason,” but it was clear, even in the fading light, that the roller coaster had not been used for quite some time, because the tracks and carts were overgrown with ivy and other winding plants, which made the carnival attraction look as if it were about to sink into the earth. Past the roller coaster was a row of enormous tents, shivering in the evening breeze like jellyfish, and alongside each tent was a caravan, which is a wheeled carriage used as a home by people who travel frequently. The caravans and tents all had different designs painted on the sides, but the Baudelaires knew at once which caravan was Madame Lulu’s because it was decorated with an enormous eye. The eye matched the one tattooed on Count Olaf’s left ankle, the one the Baudelaires had seen many times in their lives, and it made them shiver to think they could not escape it even in the hinterlands. “Now that we’re out of the trunk,” Klaus said, “let’s get out of the area. Olaf and his troupe could get back any minute.” “But where are we going to go?” Violet asked. “We’re in the hinterlands. Olaf’s comrade said there was no place to hide.” “Well, we’ll have to find one,” Klaus said. “It can’t be safe to hang around any place where Count Olaf is welcome.” “Eye!” Sunny agreed, pointing to Madame Lulu’s caravan. “But we can’t go wandering around the countryside again,” Violet said. “The last time we did that, we ended up in even more trouble.” “Maybe we could call the police from that phone booth,” Klaus said. “Dragnet!” Sunny said, which meant “But the police think we’re murderers!” “I suppose we could try to reach Mr. Poe,” Violet said. “He didn’t answer the telegram we sent him asking for help, but maybe we’ll have better luck on the phone.” The three siblings looked at one another without much hope. Mr. Poe was the Vice President of Orphan Affairs at Mulctuary Money Management, a large bank in the city, and part of his job was overseeing the Baudelaires’ affairs after the fire. Mr. Poe was not a wicked person, but he had mistakenly placed them in the company of so much wickedness that he had been almost as wicked as an actual wicked person, and the children were not particularly eager to contact him again, even if it was all they could think of. “It’s probably a slim chance that he’ll be of any help,” Violet admitted, “but what have we got to lose?” “Let’s not think about that,” Klaus replied, and walked over to the phone booth. “Maybe Mr. Poe will at least allow us to explain ourselves.” “Veriz,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “We’ll need money to make a phone call.” “I don’t have any,” Klaus said, reaching into his pockets. “Do you have any money, Violet?” Violet shook her head. “Let’s call the operator and see if there’s some way we can place a call without paying for it.” Klaus nodded, and opened the door of the booth so he and his sisters could crowd inside. Violet lifted the receiver and dialed O for operator, while Klaus lifted up Sunny so all three siblings could hear the conversation. “Operator,” said the operator. “Good evening,” Violet said. “My siblings and I would like to place a call.” “Please deposit the proper amount of money,” the operator said. “We don’t have the proper amount of money,” Violet said. “We don’t have any money at all. But this is an emergency.” There was a faint wheezing noise from the phone, and the Baudelaires realized that the operator was sighing. “What is the exact nature of your emergency?” Violet looked down at her siblings and saw the last of the sunset’s blue light reflecting off Klaus’s glasses and Sunny’s teeth. As the dark closed around them, the nature of their emergency seemed so enormous that it would take the rest of the night to explain it to the telephone operator, and the eldest Baudelaire tried to figure out how she could summarize, a word which here means “tell their story in a way that would convince the operator to let them talk to Mr. Poe.” “Well,” she began, “my name is Violet Baudelaire, and I’m here with my brother, Klaus, and my sister, Sunny. Our names might sound a bit familiar to you, because The Daily Punctilio has recently published an article saying that we’re Veronica, Klyde, and Susie Baudelaire, and that we’re murderers who killed Count Omar. But Count Omar is really Count Olaf, and he’s not really dead. He faked his death by killing another person with the same tattoo, and framed us for the murder. Recently he destroyed a hospital while trying to capture us, but we managed to hide in the trunk of his car as he drove off with his comrades. Now we’ve gotten out of the trunk, and we’re trying to reach Mr. Poe so he can help us get ahold of the Snicket file, which we think might explain what the initials V.F.D. stand for, and if one of our parents survived the fire after all. I know it’s a very complicated story, and it may seem unbelievable to you, but we’re all by ourselves in the hinterlands and we don’t know what else to do.” The story was so terrible that Violet had cried a little while telling it, and she brushed a tear from her eye as she waited for a reply from the operator. But no voice came out of the phone. The three Baudelaires listened carefully, but all they could hear was the empty and distant sound of a telephone line. “Hello?” Violet said finally. The telephone said nothing. “Hello?” Violet said again. “Hello? Hello?” The telephone did not answer. “Hello?” Violet said, as loud as she dared. “I think we’d better hang up,” Klaus said gently. “But why isn’t anyone answering?” Violet cried. “I don’t know,” Klaus said, “but I don’t think the operator will help us.” Violet hung up the phone and opened the door of the booth. Now that the sun was down the air was getting colder, and she shivered in the evening breeze. “Who will help us?” she asked. “Who will take care of us?” “We’ll have to take care of ourselves,” Klaus said. “Ephrai,” Sunny said, which meant “But we’re in real trouble now.” “We sure are,” Violet agreed. “We’re in the middle of nowhere, with no place to hide, and the whole world thinks we’re criminals. How do criminals take care of themselves out in the hinterlands?” The Baudelaires heard a burst of laughter, as if in reply. The laughter was quite faint, but in the still of the evening it made the children jump. Sunny pointed, and the children could see a light in one of the windows in Madame Lulu’s caravan. Several shadows moved across the window, and the children could tell that Count Olaf and his troupe were inside, chatting and laughing while the Baudelaire orphans shivered outside in the gloom. “Let’s go see,” Klaus said. “Let’s go find out how criminals take care of themselves.” grounds of Caligari Carnival, and how to crouch as invisibly as possible outside the window of Madame Lulu’s caravan. If you had been there that eerie blue evening-and nothing in my research indicates that you were-you wouldn’t have heard even the slightest mstle from the Baudelaires as they eavesdropped on their enemies. Count Olaf and his troupe, however, were making plenty of noise. “Madame Lulu!” Count Olaf was roaring as the children pressed up against the side of the caravan so that they would be hidden in the shadows. “Madame Lulu, pour us some wine! Arson and escaping from the authorities always makes me very thirsty!” “I’d prefer buttermilk, served in a paper carton,” Esme said. “That’s the new in beverage.” “Live glasses of wine and a carton of buttermilk coming up, please,” answered a woman in an accent the children recognized. Not so long ago, when Esme Squalor had been the Baudelaires’ caretaker, Olaf had disguised himself as a person who did not speak English well, and as part of his disguise, he had spoken in an accent very similar to the one they were hearing now. The Baudelaires tried to peer through the window and catch a glimpse of the fortuneteller, but Madame Lulu had shut her curtains tightly. “I’m thrilled, please, to see you, my Olaf. Welcome to the caravan of mine. How is life for you?” “We’ve been swamped at work,” the hook-handed man said, using a phrase which here means “chasing after innocent children for quite some time.” “Those three orphans have been very difficult to capture.” “Do not worry of the children, please,” Madame Lulu replied. “My crystal ball tells me that my Olaf will prevail.” “If that means ‘murder innocent children,”’ one of the white-faced women said, “then that’s the best news we’ve heard all day.” “‘Prevail’ means ‘win,’” Olaf said, “but in my case that’s the same thing as killing those Baudelaires. Exactly when does the crystal ball say I will prevail, Lulu?” “Very soon, please,” Madame Lulu replied. “What gifts have you brought me from your traveling, my Olaf?” “Well, let’s see,” Olaf replied. “There’s a lovely pearl necklace I stole from one of the nurses at Heimlich Hospital.” “You promised me I could have that,” Esme said. “Give her one of those crow hats you snatched from the Village of Eowl Devotees.” “I tell you, Lulu,” Olaf said, “your fortune-telling abilities are amazing. I never would have guessed that the Baudelaires were hiding out in that stupid town, but your crystal ball knew right away.” “Magic is magic, please,” Lulu replied. “More wine, my Olaf?” “Thank you,” Olaf said. “Now, Lulu, we need your fortune-telling abilities once more.” “The Baudelaire brats slipped away from us again,” the bald man said, “and the boss was hoping you’d be able to tell us where they went.” “Also,” the hook-handed man said, “we need to know where the Snicket file is.” “And we need to know if one of the Baudelaire parents survived the fire,” Esme said. “The orphans seem to think so, but your crystal ball could tell us for sure.” “And I’d like some more wine,” one of the white-faced women said. “So many demands you make,” Madame Lulu said in her strange accent. “Madame Lulu remembers, please, when you would visit only for the pleasure of my company, my Olaf.” “There isn’t time for that tonight,” Olaf replied quickly. “Can’t you consult your crystal ball right now?” “You know rules of crystal ball, my Olaf,” Lulu replied. “At night the crystal ball must be sleeping in the fortune-telling tent, and at sunrise you may ask one question.” “Then I’ll ask my first question tomorrow morning,” Olaf said, “and we’ll stay until all my questions are answered.” “Oh, my Olaf,” Madame Lulu said. “Please, times are very hard for Caligari Carnival. Is not good business idea to have carnival in hinterlands, so there are not many people to see Madame Lulu or crystal ball. Caligari Carnival gift caravan has lousy souvenirs. And Madame Lulu has not enough freaks, please, in the House of breaks. You visit, my Olaf, with troupe, and stay many days, drink my wine and eat all of my snackings.” “This roast chicken is very delicious,” the hook-handed man said. “Madame Lulu has no money, please,” Lulu continued. “Is hard, my Olaf, to do fortunetelling for you when Madame Lulu is so poor. The caravan of mine has leaky roof, and Madame Lulu needs money, please, to do repairs.” “I’ve told you before,” Olaf said, “once we get the Baudelaire fortune, the carnival will have plenty of money.” “You said that about Quagmire fortune, my Olaf,” Madame Lulu said, “and about Snicket fortune. But never a penny does Madame Lulu see. We must think, please, of something to make Caligari Carnival more popular. Madame Lulu was hoping that troupe of my Olaf could put on a big show like The Marvelous Marriage. Many people would come to see.” “The boss can’t get up on stage,” the bald man said. “Planning schemes is a full-time job.” “Besides,” Esme said, “I’ve retired from show business. All I want to be now is Count Olaf’s girlfriend.” There was a silence, and the only thing the Baudelaires could hear from Lulu’s caravan was the crunch of someone chewing on chicken bones. Then there was a long sigh, and Lulu spoke very quietly. “You did not tell me, my Olaf, that Esme was the girlfriend of you. Perhaps Madame Lulu will not let you and troupe stay at the carnival of mine.” “Now, now, Lulu,” Count Olaf said, and the children shivered as they eavesdropped. Olaf was talking in a tone of voice the Baudelaires had heard many times, when he was trying to fool someone into thinking he was a kind and decent person. Even with the curtains closed, the Baudelaires could tell that he was giving Madame Lulu a toothy grin, and that his eyes were shining brightly beneath his one eyebrow, as if he were about to tell a joke. “Did I ever tell you how I began my career as an actor?” “It’s a fascinating story,” the hook-handed man said. “It certainly is,” Olaf agreed. “Give me some more wine, and I’ll tell you. Now then, as a child, I was always the most handsome fellow at school, and one day a young director 55 The Baudelaires had heard enough. The three children had spent enough time with the villain to know that once he began talking about himself, he continued until the cows came home, a phrase which here means “until there was no more wine,” and they tiptoed away from Madame Lulu’s caravan and back toward Count Olaf’s car so they could talk without being overheard. In the dark of night, the long, black automobile looked like an enormous hole, and the children felt as if they were about to fall into it as they tried to decide what to do. “I guess we should leave,” Klaus said uncertainly. “It’s definitely not safe around here, but I don’t know where we can go in the hinterlands. There’s nothing for miles and miles but wilderness, and we could die of thirst, or be attacked by wild animals.” Violet looked around quickly, as if something were about to attack them that very moment, but the only wild animal in view was the painted lion on the carnival sign. “Even if we found someone else out there,” she said, “they’d probably think we were murderers and call the police. Also, Madame Lulu promised to answer all of Olaf’s questions tomorrow morning.” “You don’t think Madame Lulu’s crystal ball really works, do you?” Klaus asked. “I’ve never read any evidence that fortune-telling is real.” “But Madame Lulu keeps telling Count Olaf where we are,” Violet pointed out. “She must be getting her information from someplace. If she can really find out the location of the Snicket file, or learn if one of our parents is alive ...” Her voice trailed off, but she did not need to finish her sentence. All three Baudelaires knew that finding out if someone survived the fire was worth the risk of staying nearby. “Sandover,” Sunny said, which meant “So we’re staying.” “We should at least stay the night,” Klaus agreed. “But where can we hide? If we don’t stay out of sight, someone is likely to recognize us.” “Karneez?” Sunny asked. “The people in those caravans work for Madame Lulu,” Klaus said. “Who knows if they’d help us or not?” “I have an idea,” Violet said, and walked over to the back of Count Olaf’s car. With a creeeak, she opened the trunk again and leaned down inside. “Nuts!” Sunny said, which meant “I don’t think that’s such a good idea, Violet.” “Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “Olaf and his henchmen might come back any minute to unpack the trunk. We can’t hide in there.” “We’re not going to hide in there,” Violet said. “We’re not going to hide at all. After all, Olaf and his troupe never hide, and they manage not to be recognized. We’re going to disguise ourselves.” “Gabrowha?” Sunny asked. “Why wouldn’t it work?” Violet replied. “Olaf wears these disguises and he manages to fool everyone. If we fool Madame Lulu into thinking we’re somebody else, we can stay around and find the answers to our questions.” “It seems risky,” Klaus said, “but I suppose “It’s just as risky as trying to hide someplace. Who should we pretend to be?” “Let’s look through the disguises,” Violet said, “and see if we get any ideas.” “We’ll have to feel through them,” Klaus said. “It’s too dark to look through anything.” The Baudelaires stood in front of the open trunk and reached inside to begin their search. As I’m sure you know, whenever you are examining someone else’s belongings, you are bound to learn many interesting things about the person of which you were not previously aware. You might examine some letters your sister received recently, for instance, and learn that she was planning on running away with an archduke. You might examine the suitcases of another passenger on a train you are taking, and learn that he had been secretly photographing you for the past six months. I recently looked in the refrigerator of one of my enemies and learned she was a vegetarian, or at least pretending to be one, or had a vegetarian visiting her for a few days. And the Baudelaire orphans examined some of the objects in Olaf’s trunk, they learned a great deal of unpleasant things. Violet found part of a brass lamp she remembered from living with Uncle Monty, and learned that Olaf had stolen from her poor guardian, in addition to murdering him. Klaus found a large shopping bag from the In Boutique, and learned that Esme Squalor was just as obsessed with fashionable clothing as she ever was. And Sunny found a pair of pantyhose covered in sawdust, and learned that Olaf had not washed his receptionist disguise since he had used it last. But the most dismaying thing the children learned from searching the trunk of Olaf’s car was just how many disguises he had at his disposal. They found the hat Olaf used to disguise himself as a ship captain, and the razor he had probably used to shave his head in order to resemble a lab assistant. They found the expensive running shoes he had worn to disguise himself as a gym teacher, and the plastic ones he had used when he was pretending to be a detective. But the siblings also found plenty of costumes they had never seen before, and it seemed as though Olaf could keep on disguising himself forever, following the Baudelaires to location after location, always appearing with a new identity and never getting caught. “We could disguise ourselves as almost anybody,” Violet said. “Look, here’s a wig that makes me look like a clown, and here’s one that makes me look like a judge.” “I know,” Klaus said, holding up a large box with several drawers. “This appears to be a makeup kit, complete with fake mustaches, fake eyebrows, and even a pair of glass eyes.” “Twicho!” Sunny said, holding up a long white veil. “No, thank you,” Violet said. “I already had to wear that veil once, when Olaf nearly married me. I’d rather not wear it again. Besides, what would a bride be doing wandering around the hinterlands?” “Look at this long robe,” Klaus said. “It looks like something a rabbi would wear, but I don’t know if Madame Lulu would believe that a rabbi would visit her in the middle of the night.” “Ginawn!” Sunny said, using her teeth to wrap a pair of sweatpants around her. The youngest Baudelaire meant something like, “All these clothes are too big for me,” and she was right. “That’s even bigger than that pinstripe suit Esme bought you,” Klaus said, helping his sister get disentangled. “No one would believe that a pair of sweatpants was walking around a carnival by itself.” “All these clothes are too big,” Violet said. “Look at this beige coat. If I tried to disguise myself in it, I’d only look freakish.” “Freakish!” Klaus said. “That’s it!” “Whazit?” Sunny asked. “Madame Lulu said that she didn’t have enough freaks in the House of Freaks. If we find disguises that make us look freakish, and tell Lulu that we’re looking for work, she might hire us as part of the carnival.” “But what exactly do freaks do?” Violet asked. “I read a book once about a man named John Merrick,” Klaus said. “He had horrible birth defects that made him look terribly deformed. A carnival put him on display as part of a House of Freaks, and people paid money to go into a tent and look at him.” “Why would people want to look at someone with birth defects?” Violet asked. “It sounds cruel.” “It was cruel,” Klaus said. “The crowd often threw things at Mr. Merrick, and called him names. I’m afraid the House of Freaks isn’t a very pleasant form of entertainment.” “You’d think someone would put a stop to it,” Violet said, “but you’d think somebody would put a stop to Count Olaf, too, and nobody does.” “Radev,” Sunny said with a nervous look around them. By “Radev,” she meant “Somebody’s going to put a stop to us if we don’t disguise ourselves soon,” and her siblings nodded solemnly in agreement. “Here’s some kind of fancy shirt,” Klaus said. “It’s covered in ruffles and bows. And here’s an enormous pair of pants with fur on the cuffs.” “Could both of us wear them at once?” Violet asked. “Both of us?” Klaus said. “I suppose so, if we kept on our clothes underneath, so Olaf’s would fit. We could each stand on one leg, and tuck our other legs inside. We’d have to lean against one another as we walked, but I think it might work.” “And we could do the same thing with the shirt,” Violet said. “We could each put one arm through a sleeve and keep the other tucked inside.” “But we couldn’t hide one of our heads,” Klaus pointed out, “and with both of our heads poking out of the top we’d look like some sort of-” “-two-headed person,” Violet finished, “and a two-headed person is exactly what a House of Freaks would put on display.” “That’s good thinking,” Klaus said. “People won’t be on the lookout for a two-headed person. But we’ll need to disguise our faces, too.” “The makeup kit will take care of that,” Violet said. “Mother taught me how to draw fake scars on myself when she appeared in that play about the murderer.” “And here’s a can of talcum powder,” Klaus said. “We can use this to whiten our hair.” “Do you think Count Olaf will notice that these things are missing from his trunk?” Violet asked. “I doubt it,” Klaus said. “The trunk isn’t very well organized, and I don’t think he’s used some of these disguises for a long time. I think we can take enough to become a twoheaded person without Olaf missing anything.” “Beriu?” Sunny said, which meant “What about me?” “These disguises are made for fully grown people,” Violet said, “but I’m sure we can find you something. Maybe you could fit inside one of these shoes, and be a person with just a head and one foot. That’s plenty freakish.” “Chelish,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “I’m too big to fit inside a shoe.” “That’s true,” Klaus said. “It’s been a while since you were shoe-sized.” He reached inside the trunk and pulled out something short and hairy, as if he had caught a raccoon. “But this might work,” he said. “I think this is the fake beard Olaf wore when he was pretending to be Stephano. It’s a long beard, so it might work as a short disguise.” “Let’s find out,” Violet said, “and let’s find out quickly.” The Baudelaires found out quickly. In just a few minutes, the children found out just how easy it was to transform themselves into entirely different people. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny had some experience in disguising themselves, of course-Klaus and Sunny had used medical coats at Heimlich Hospital in a plan to rescue Violet, and even Sunny could remember when all three siblings had occasionally worn costumes for their own amusement, back when they had lived in the Baudelaire mansion with their parents. But this time, the Baudelaire orphans felt more like Count Olaf and his troupe, as they worked quietly and hurriedly in the night to erase all traces of their true identities. Violet felt through the makeup kit until she found several pencils that were normally used to make one’s eyebrows more dramatic, and even though it was simple and painless to draw scars on Klaus’s face, it felt as if she were breaking the promise she made to her parents, a very long time ago, that she would always look after her siblings and keep them away from harm. Klaus helped Sunny wrap herself in Olaf’s fake beard, but when he saw her eyes and the tips of her teeth peeking out of the mass of scratchy hair it felt as if he had fed his baby sister to some tiny but hungry animal. And as Sunny helped her siblings button themselves into the fancy shirt and sprinkle talcum on their hair to turn it gray, it felt as if they were melting into Olaf’s clothes. The three Baudelaires looked at one another carefully but it was as if there were no Baudelaires there at all, just two strangers, one with two heads and the other with a head that was covered in fur, all alone in the hinterlands. “I think we look utterly unrecognizable,” Klaus said, turning with difficulty to face his older sister. “Maybe it’s because I took off my glasses, but to me we don’t look a thing like ourselves.” “Will you be able to see without your glasses?” Violet asked. “If I squint,” Klaus said, squinting. “I can’t read like this, but I won’t be bumping into things. If I keep them on, Count Olaf will probably recognize me.” “Then you’d better keep them off,” Violet said, “and I’ll stop wearing a ribbon in my hair.” “We’d better disguise our voices, too,” Klaus said. “I’ll try to speak as high as I can, and why don’t you try to speak in a low voice, Violet?” “Good idea,” Violet said, in as low a voice as she could. “And Sunny, you should probably just growl.” “Grr,” Sunny tried. “You sound like a wolf,” Violet said, still practicing her disguised tone. “Let’s tell Madame Lulu that you’re half wolf and half person.” “That would be a miserable experience,” Klaus said, in the highest voice he could manage. “But I suppose being born with two heads wouldn’t be any easier.” “We’ll explain to Lulu that we’ve had miserable experiences, but now we’re hoping things will get better working at the carnival,” Violet said, and then sighed. “That’s one thing we don’t have to pretend. We have had miserable experiences, and we are hoping that things will get better here. We’re almost as freakish as we’re pretending to be.” “Don’t say that,” Klaus said, and then remembered his new voice. “Don’t say that,” he said again, at a much higher pitch. “We’re not freaks. We’re still the Baudelaires, even if we’re wearing Olaf’s disguises.” “I know,” Violet said, in her new voice, “but it’s a little confusing pretending to be a completely different person.” “Grr,” Sunny growled in agreement, and the three children put the rest of Count Olaf’s things back in the trunk, and walked in silence to Madame Lulu’s caravan. It was awkward for Violet and Klaus to walk in the same pair of pants, and Sunny had to keep stopping to brush the beard out of her eyes. It was confusing pretending to be completely different people, particularly because it had been so long since the Baudelaires were able to be the people they really were. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not think of themselves as the sort of children who hid in the trunks of automobiles, or who wore disguises, or who tried to get jobs at the House of Freaks. But the siblings could scarcely remember when they had been able to relax and do the things they liked to do best. It seemed ages since Violet had been able to sit around and think of inventions, instead of frantically building something to get them out of trouble. Klaus could barely remember the last book he had read for his own enjoyment, instead of as research to defeat one of Olaf ‘s schemes. And Sunny had used her teeth many, many times to escape from difficult situations, but it had been quite a while since she had bitten something recreationally. As the youngsters approached the caravan, it seemed as if each awkward step took them further and further from their real lives as Baudelaires, and into their disguised lives as carnival freaks, and it was indeed very confusing. When Sunny knocked on the door, Madame Lulu called out, “Who’s there?” and for the first time in their lives, it was a confusing question. “We’re freaks,” Violet answered, in her disguised voice. “We’re three-I mean, we’re two freaks looking for work.” The door opened with a creak, and the children got their first look at Madame Lulu. She was wearing a long, shimmering robe that seemed to change colors as she moved, and a turban that looked very much like the one Count Olaf had worn back at Prufrock Preparatory School . She had dark, piercing eyes, with two dramatic eyebrows hovering suspiciously as she looked them over. Behind her, sitting at a small round table, were Count Olaf, Esme Squalor, and Olaf’s comrades, who were all staring at the youngsters curiously. And as if all those curious eyes weren’t enough, there was one more eye gazing at the Baudelaires-a glass eye, attached to a chain around Madame Lulu’s neck. The eye matched the one painted on her caravan, and the one tattooed on Count Olaf’s ankle. It was an eye that seemed to follow the Baudelaires wherever they went, drawing them deeper and deeper into the troubling mystery of their lives. “Walk in, please,” Madame Lulu said in her strange accent, and the disguised children obeyed. As freakishly as they could, the Baudelaire orphans walked in, taking a few steps closer to all those staring eyes, and a few steps further from the lives they were leaving behind. CHAPTER Three Besides getting several paper cuts in the same day or receiving the news that someone in your family has betrayed you to your enemies, one of the most unpleasant experiences in life is a job interview. It is very nerve-wracking to explain to someone all the things you can do in the hopes that they will pay you to do them. I once had a very difficult job interview in which I had not only to explain that I could hit an olive with a bow and arrow, memorize up to three pages of poetry, and determine if there was poison mixed into cheese fondue without tasting it, but I had to demonstrate all these things as well. In most cases, the best strategy for a job interview is to be fairly honest, because the worst thing that can happen is that you won’t get the job and will spend the rest of your life foraging for food in the wilderness and seeking shelter underneath a tree or the awning of a bowling alley that has gone out of business, but in the case of the Baudelaire orphans’ job interview with Madame Lulu, the situation was much more desperate. They could not be honest at all, because they were disguised as entirely different people, and the worst thing that could happen was being discovered by Count Olaf and his troupe and spending the rest of their lives in circumstances so terrible that the children could not bear to think of them. “Sit down, please, and Lulu will interview you for carnival job,” Madame Lulu said, gesturing to the round table where Olaf and his troupe were sitting. Violet and Klaus sat down on one chair with difficulty, and Sunny crawled onto another while everyone watched them in silence. The troupe had their elbows on the table and were eating the snacks Lulu had provided with their fingers, while Esme Squalor sipped her buttermilk, and Count Olaf leaned back in his chair and looked at the Baudelaires very, very carefully. “It seems to me you look very familiar,” he said. “Perhaps you have seen before the freaks, my Olaf,” Lulu said. “What are names of the freaks?” “My name is Beverly ,” Violet said, in her low, disguised voice, inventing a name as quickly as she could invent an ironing board. “And this is my other head, Elliot.” Olaf reached across the table to shake hands, and Violet and Klaus had to stop for a moment to figure out whose arm was sticking out of the right-hand sleeve. “It’s very nice to meet you both,” he said. “It must be very difficult, having two heads.” “Oh, yes,” Klaus said, in as high a voice as he could manage. “You can’t imagine how troublesome it is to find clothing.” “I was just noticing your shirt,” Esme said. “It’s very in.” “Just because we’re freaks,” Violet said, “doesn’t mean we don’t care about fashion.” “How about eating?” Count Olaf said, his eyes shining brightly. “Do you have trouble eating?” “Well, I-I mean, well, we-” Klaus said, but before he could go on, Olaf grabbed a long ear of corn from a platter on the table and held it toward the two children. “Let’s see how much trouble you have,” he snarled, as his henchmen began to giggle. “Eat this ear of corn, you two-headed freak.” “Yes,” Madame Lulu agreed. “It is best way to see if you can work in carnival. Eat corn! Eat corn! Violet and Klaus looked at one another, and then reached out one hand each to take the corn from Olaf and hold it awkwardly in front of their mouths. Violet leaned forward to take the first bite, but the motion of the corn made it slip from Klaus’s hand and fall back down onto the table, and the room roared with cruel laughter. A Series of Unfortunate Events 9 - The Carnivorous Carnival “Look at them!” one of the white-faced women laughed. “They can’t even eat an ear of corn! How freakish!” “Try again,” Olaf said with a nasty smile. “Pick the corn up from the table, freak.” The children picked up the corn and held it to their mouths once more. Klaus squinted and tried to take a bite, but when Violet tried to move the corn to help him, it hit him in the face and everyone-except for Sunny, of course- laughed once more. “You are funny freaks,” Madame Lulu said. She was laughing so hard that she had to wipe her eyes, and when she did, one of her dramatic eyebrows smeared slightly, as if she had a small bruise above one eye. “Try again, Beverly-and-Elliot freak!” “This is the funniest thing I’ve ever seen,” said the hook-handed man. “I always thought people with birth defects were unfortunate, but now I realize they’re hilarious.” Violet and Klaus wanted to point out that a man with hooks for hands would probably have an equally difficult time eating an ear of corn, but they knew that a job interview is rarely a good time to start arguments, so the siblings swallowed their words and began swallowing corn. After a few bites, the children began to get their bearings, a phrase which here means “figure out how two people, using only two hands, can eat one ear of corn at the same time,” but it was still quite a difficult task. The ear of corn was greasy with butter that left damp streaks on their mouths or dripped down their chins. Sometimes the ear of corn would be at a perfect angle for one of them to bite, but would be poking the other one in the face. And often the ear of corn would simply slip out of their hands, and everyone would laugh yet again. “This is more fun than kidnapping!” said the bald associate of Olaf’s, who was shaking with laughter. “Lulu, this freak will have people coming from miles around to watch, and all it will cost you is an ear of corn!” “Is true, please,” Madame Lulu agreed, and looked down at Violet and Klaus. “The crowd loves sloppy eating,” she said. “You are hired for House of Freaks show.” “How about that other one?” Esme asked, giggling and wiping buttermilk from her upper lip. “What is that freak, some sort of living scarf?” “Chabo!” Sunny said to her siblings. She meant something like, “I know this is humiliating, but at least our disguises are working!” but Violet was quick to disguise her translation. “This is Chabo the Wolf Baby,” she said, in her low voice. “Her mother was a hunter who fell in love with a handsome wolf, and this is their poor child.” “I didn’t even know that was possible,” said the hook-handed man. “Git,” Sunny growled. “It might be funny to watch her eat corn too,” said the bald man, and he grabbed another ear of corn and waved it at the youngest Baudelaire. “Here Chabo! Have an ear of corn!” Sunny opened her mouth wide, but when the bald man saw the tips of her teeth poking out through the beard, he yanked his hand back in fear. “Yikes!” he said. “That freak is vicious!” “She’s still a bit wild,” Klaus said, still speaking as high as he could. “In fact, we got all these horrible scars from teasing her.” “Grr,” Sunny growled again, and bit a piece of silverware to demonstrate how wild she was. “Chabo will be excellent carnival attraction,” Madame Lulu pronounced. “People are always liking of violence, please. You are hired, too, Chabo.” “Just keep her away from me,” Esme said. “A wolf baby like that would probably ruin my outfit.” “Grr!” Sunny growled. “Come now, freaky people,” Madame Lulu said! “Madame Lulu will show you the caravan, please, where you will do the sleeping.” “We’ll stay here and have more wine,” Count Olaf said. “Congratulations on the new freaks, Lulu. I knew you’d have good luck with me around.” “Everyone does,” Esme said, and kissed Olaf on the cheek. Madame Lulu scowled, and led the children out of her caravan and into the night. “Follow me, freaks, please,” she said. “You will be living, please, in freaks’ caravan. You will share with other freaks. There is Hugo, Colette, and Kevin, all freaks. Every day will be House of Freaks show. Beverly and Elliot, you will be eating of corn, please. Chabo, you will be attacking of audience, please. Are there any freaky questions?” “Will we be paid?” Klaus asked. He was thinking that having some money might help the Baudelaires, if they learned the answers to their questions and had an opportunity to get away from the carnival. “No, no, no,” Madame Lulu said. “Madame Lulu will be giving no money to the freaks, please. If you are freak, you are lucky that someone will give you work. Look at man with hooks on hands. He is grateful to do the working for Count Olaf, even though Olaf will not be giving him of the Baudelaire fortune.” “Count Olaf?” Violet asked, pretending that her worst enemy was a complete stranger. “Is that the gentleman with one eyebrow?” “That is Olaf,” Lulu said. “He is brilliant man, but do not be saying the wrong things to him, please. Madame Lulu always says you must always give people what they want, so always tell Olaf he is brilliant man.” “We’ll remember that,” Klaus said. “Good, please,” Madame Lulu said. “Now, here is freak caravan. Welcome freaks, to your new home.” The fortune-teller had stopped at a caravan with the word freaks painted on it in large, sloppy letters. The letters were smeared and dripping in several places, as if the paint was still wet, but the word was so faded that the Baudelaires knew the caravan had been labeled many years ago. Next to the caravan was a shabby tent with several holes in it and a sign reading WELCOME TO THE HOUSE OF FREAKS, with a small drawing of a girl with three eyes. Madame Lulu strode past the sign to knock on the caravan’s wooden door. “Freaks!” Madame Lulu cried. “Please wake up, please! New freaks are here for you to say hello!” “Just a minute, Madame Lulu,” called a voice from behind the door. “No just a minute, please,” Madame Lulu said. “Now! I am the boss of the carnival!” The door swung open to reveal a sleepy-looking man with a hunchback, a word which here means “a back with a hump near the shoulder, giving the person a somewhat irregular appearance.” He was wearing a pair of pajamas that were ripped at the shoulder to make room for his hunchback, and holding a small candle to help him see in the dark. “I know you are the boss, Madame Lulu,” the man said, “but it’s the middle of the night. Don’t you want your freaks to be well-rested?” “Madame Lulu does not particularly care about sleep of freaks,” Lulu said haughtily. “Please be telling the new freaks what to do for show tomorrow. The freak with two heads will be eating corn, please, and the little wolf freak will be attacking audience.” “Violence and sloppy eating,” the man said, and sighed. “I guess the crowd will like that.” “Of course crowd will like,” Lulu said, “and then carnival will get much money.” “And then maybe you’ll pay us?” the man asked. “Fat chance, please,” Madame Lulu replied. “Good night, freaks.” “Good night, Madame Lulu,” replied Violet who would have rather been called a proper name, even if it was one she invented, than simply “freak,” but the fortune-teller walked away without looking back. The Baudelaires stood in the doorway of the caravan for a moment, watching Lulu disappear into the night, before looking up at the man and introducing themselves a bit more properly. “My name is Beverly ,” Violet said. “My second head is named Elliot, and this is Chabo the Wolf Baby.” “Grr!” growled Sunny. “I’m Hugo,” the man said. “It’ll be nice to have new coworkers. Come on inside the caravan and I’ll introduce you to the others.” Still finding it awkward to walk, Violet and Klaus followed Hugo inside, and Sunny followed her siblings, preferring to crawl rather than walk, because it made her seem more half wolf. The caravan was small, but the children could see by the light of Hugo’s candle that it was tidy and clean. There was a small wooden table in the center, with a set of dominoes stacked up in the center and several chairs grouped around. In one corner was a rack with clothing hung on it, including a long row of identical coats, and a large mirror so you could comb your hair and make sure you looked presentable. There was a small stove for cooking meals, with a few pots and pans stacked alongside it, and a few potted plants lined up near the window so they would get enough sunlight. Violet would have liked to add a small workbench she could use while inventing things, Klaus would have been pleased to be squinting at some bookshelves, and Sunny would have preferred to see a stack of raw carrots or other foods that are pleasant to bite, but otherwise the caravan looked like a cozy place to live. The only thing that seemed to be missing was someplace to sleep, but as Hugo walked farther into the room, the children saw that there were three hammocks, which are long, wide pieces of cloth used for beds, hanging from places on the walls. One hammock was empty-the Baudelaires supposed that this was where Hugo slept-but in another they could see a tall skinny woman with curly hair squinting down at them, and in the third was a man with a very wrinkled face who was still asleep. “Kevin!” Hugo called up to the sleeping man. “Kevin, get up! We have new coworkers, and I’ll need help setting up more hammocks.” The man frowned and glared down at Hugo. “I wish you hadn’t woken me up,” Kevin said. “I was having a delightful dream that there was nothing wrong with me at all, instead of being a freak.” The Baudelaires took a good look at Kevin as he lowered himself to the floor and were unable to see anything the least bit freakish about him, but he stared at the Baudelaires as if he had seen a ghost. “My word,” he said. “You two have it as bad as I do.” “Try to be polite, Kevin,” Hugo said. “This is Beverly and Elliot, and there on the floor is Chabo the Wolf Baby.” “Wolf Baby?” Kevin repeated, shaking Violet and Klaus’s shared right hand. “Is she dangerous?” “She doesn’t like to be teased,” Violet said. “I don’t like to be teased either,” Kevin said, and hung his head. “But wherever I go, I hear people whispering, ‘there goes Kevin, the ambidextrous freak.’” “Ambidextrous?” Klaus said. “Doesn’t that mean you are both right-handed and lefthanded?” “So you’ve heard of me,” Kevin said. “Is that why you traveled out here to the hinterlands, so you could stare at somebody who can write his name with either his left hand or his right?” “No,” Klaus said. “I just know the word ‘ambidextrous’ from a book I read.” “I had a feeling you’d be smart,” Hugo said. “After all, you have twice as many brains as most people.” “I only have one brain,” Kevin said sadly. “One brain, two ambidextrous arms, and two ambidextrous legs. What a freak!” “It’s better than being a hunchback,” Hugo said. “Your hands may be freaky, but you have absolutely normal shoulders.” “What good are normal shoulders,” Kevin said, “when they’re attached to hands that are equally good at using a knife and fork?” “Oh, Kevin,” the woman said, and climbed down from her hammock to give him a pat on the head. “I know it’s depressing being so freakish, but try and look on the bright side. At least you’re better off than me.” She turned to the children and gave them a shy smile. “My name is Colette,” she said, “and if you’re going to laugh at me, I’d prefer you do it now and get it over with.” The Baudelaires looked at Colette and then at one another. “Renuf!” Sunny said, which meant something like, “I don’t see anything freakish about you either, but even if I did I wouldn’t laugh at you because it wouldn’t be polite.” “I bet that’s some sort of wolf laugh,” Colette said, “but I don’t blame Chabo for laughing at a contortionist.” “Contortionist?” Violet asked. “Yes,” Colette sighed. “I can bend my body into all sorts of unusual positions. Look.” The Baudelaires watched as Colette sighed again and launched into a contortionist routine. First she bent down so her head was between her legs, and curled up into a tiny ball on the floor. Then she pushed one hand against the ground and lifted her entire body up on just a few fingers, braiding her legs together into a spiral. Finally she flipped up in the air, balanced for a moment on her head, and twisted her arms and legs together like a mass of twine before looking up at the Baudelaires with a sad frown. “You see?” Colette said. “I’m a complete freak.” “Wow!” Sunny shrieked. “I thought that was amazing,” Violet said, “and so did Chabo.” “That’s very polite of you to say so,” Colette said, “but I’m ashamed that I’m a contortionist.” “But if you’re ashamed of it,” Klaus said, “why don’t you just move your body normally, instead of doing contortions?” “Because I’m in the House of Freaks, Elliot,” Colette said. “Nobody would pay to see me move my body normally.” “It’s an interesting dilemma,” Hugo said, using a fancy word for “problem” that the Baudelaires had learned from a law book in Justice Strauss’s library. “All three of us would rather be normal people than freaks, but tomorrow morning, people will be waiting in the tent for Colette to twist her body into strange positions, for Beverly and Elliot to eat corn, for Chabo to growl and attack the crowd, for Kevin to write his name with both hands, and for me to try on one of those coats. Madame Lulu says we must always give people what they want, and they want freaks performing on a stage. Come now, it’s very late at night. Kevin, give me a helping hand putting up hammocks for the newcomers, and then let’s all try to get some sleep.” “I might as well give you two helping hands,” Kevin said glumly. “They’re both equally efficient. Oh, I wish that I was either right-handed or left-handed.” “Try to cheer up,” Colette said gently. “Maybe a miracle will happen tomorrow, and we’ll all get the things we wish for most.” No one in the caravan said anything more, but as Hugo and Kevin prepared two hammocks for the three Baudelaires, the children thought about what Colette had said. Miracles are like meatballs, because nobody can exactly agree what they are made of, where they come from, or how often they should appear. Some people say that a sunrise is a miracle, because it is somewhat mysterious and often very beautiful, but other people say it is simply a fact of life, because it happens every day and far too early in the morning. Some people say that a telephone is a miracle, because it sometimes seems wondrous that you can talk with somebody who is thousands of miles away, and other people say it is simply a manufactured device fashioned out of metal parts, electronic circuitry, and wires that are very easily cut. And some people say that sneaking out of a hotel is a miracle, particularly if the lobby is swarming with policemen, and other people say it is simply a fact of life, because it happens every day and far too early in the morning. So you might think that there are so many miracles in the world that you can scarcely count them, or that there are so few that they’re scarcely worth mentioning, depending on whether you spend your mornings gazing at a beautiful sunset or lowering yourself into a back alley with a rope fashioned out of matching towels. But there was one miracle the Baudelaires were thinking about as they lay in their hammocks and tried to sleep, and this was the sort of miracle that felt bigger than any meatball the world has ever seen. The hammocks creaked in the caravan as Violet and Klaus tried to get comfortable in one set of clothing and Sunny tried to arrange Olaf’s beard so that it wouldn’t be too scratchy, and all three youngsters thought about a miracle so wondrous and beautiful that it made their hearts ache to think of it. The miracle, of course, was that one of their parents was alive after all, that either their father or their mother had somehow survived the fire that had destroyed their home and begun the children’s unfortunate journey. To have one more Baudelaire alive was such an enormous and unlikely miracle that the children were almost afraid to wish for it, but they wished for it anyway. The youngsters thought of what Colette had said-that maybe a miracle would happen, and that they would all get the thing they wished for most-and waited for morning to come, when Madame Lulu’s crystal ball might bring the miracle the Baudelaires were wishing for. At last the sun rose, as it does every day, and very early in the morning. The three children had slept very little and wished very much, and now they watched the caravan slowly fill with light, and listened to Hugo, Colette, and Kevin shift in their hammocks, and wondered if Count Olaf had entered the fortune-teller’s tent yet, and if he had learned anything there. And just when they could stand it no more, they heard the sound of hurrying footsteps and a loud, metallic knock on the door. “Wake up! Wake up!” came the voice of the hook-handed man, but before I write down what he said I must tell you that there is one more similarity between a miracle and a meatball, and it is that they both might appear to be one thing but turn out to be another. It happened to me once at a cafeteria, when it turned out there was a small camera hidden in the lunch I received. And it happened to Violet, Klaus and Sunny now, although it was quite some time before they learned that what the hook-handed man said turned out to be something different from what they thought when they heard him outside the door of the freaks’ caravan. “Wake up!” the hook-handed man said again, and pounded on the door. “Wake up and hurry up! I’m in a very bad mood and have no time for your nonsense. It’s a very busy day at the carnival. Madame Lulu and Count Olaf are running errands, I’m in charge of the House of Freaks, the crystal ball revealed that one of those blasted Baudelaire parents is still alive, and the gift caravan is almost out of figurines.” CHAPTER Four “What?” asked Hugo, yawning and rubbing his eyes. “What did you say?” “I said the gift caravan is almost out of figurines,” the hook-handed man said from behind the door. “But that’s not your concern. People are already arriving at the carnival, so you freaks need to be ready in fifteen minutes.” “Wait a moment, sir!” Violet thought to use her low, disguised voice just in time, as she and her brother climbed down from their hammock, still sharing a single pair of pants. Sunny was already on the floor, too astonished to remember to growl. “Did you say that one of the Baudelaire parents is alive?” The door of the caravan opened a crack, and the children could see the face of the hookhanded man peering at them suspiciously. “What do you care, freaks?” he asked. “Well,” Klaus said, thinking quickly, “we’ve been reading about the Baudelaires in The Daily Punctilio. We’re very interested in the case of those three murderous children.” “Well,” the hook-handed man said, “those kids’ parents were supposed to be dead, but Madame Lulu looked into her crystal ball and saw that one of them was alive. It’s a long story, but it means that we’re all going to be very busy. Count Olaf and Madame Lulu had to leave early this morning to run an important errand, so I’m now in charge of the House of Freaks. That means I get to boss you around, so hurry up and get ready for the show!” “Grr!” Sunny growled. “Chabo’s all set to perform,” Violet said, “and the rest of us will be ready soon.” “You’d better be,” the hook-handed man said, and began to shut the door before stopping for a moment. “That’s funny,” he said. “It looks like one of your scars is blurry.” “They blur as they heal,” Klaus said. “Too bad,” the hook-handed man said. “It makes you look less freakish.” He slammed the door and the siblings could hear him walk away from the caravan. “I feel sorry for that man,” Colette remarked, as she swung down from her hammock and curled into a contortion on the floor. “Every time he and that Count person come to visit, it makes me feel bad to look at his hooks.” “He’s better off than me,” Kevin said, yawning and stretching his ambidextrous arms. “At least one of his hooks is stronger than the other one. My arms and legs are exactly alike.” “And mine are very bendable,” Colette said. “Well, we’d better do as the man says and get ready for the show.” “That’s right,” Hugo agreed, reaching into a shelf next to his hammock and pulling out a toothbrush. “Madame Lulu says that we must always give people what they want, and that man wants us ready right away.” “Here, Chabo,” Violet said, looking down at her sister. “I’ll help you sharpen your teeth.” “Grr!” Sunny agreed, and the two older Baudelaires leaned down together, and lifted Sunny up and moved into a corner so the three children could whisper to one another near the mirror, while Hugo, Colette, and Kevin performed their toilette, a phrase which here means “did the things necessary to begin their day as carnival freaks.” “What do you think?” Klaus asked. “Do you think it’s really possible that one of our parents is alive?” “I don’t know,” Violet said. “On one hand, it’s hard to believe that Madame Lulu really has a magical crystal ball. On the other hand, she always told Count Olaf where we were so he could come and find us. I don’t know what to believe.” “Tent,” Sunny whispered. “I think you’re right, Sunny,” Klaus said. “If we could sneak into the fortune-telling tent, we might be able to find out something for ourselves.” “You’re whispering about me, aren’t you?” Kevin called out from the other end of the caravan. “I bet you’re saying, 'What a freak Kevin is. Sometimes he shaves with his left hand, and sometimes he shaves with his right hand, but it doesn’t matter because they’re exactly the same!” “We weren’t talking about you, Kevin,” Violet said. “We were discussing the Baudelaire case.” “I never heard of these Baudelaires,” Hugo said, combing his hair. “Did I hear you mention they were murderers?” “That’s what it says in The Daily Punctilio” Klaus said. “Oh, I never read the newspaper,” Kevin said. “Holding it in both of my equally strong hands makes me feel like a freak.” “That’s better than me,” Colette said. “I can contort myself into a position that allows me to pick up a newspaper with my tongue. Talk about freakish!” “It’s an interesting dilemma,” Hugo said, grabbing one of the identical coats from the rack, “but I think that we’re all equally freakish. Now, let’s get out there and put on a good show!” The Baudelaires followed their coworkers out of the caravan and over to the House of Freaks tent, where the hook-handed man was standing impatiently, holding something long and damp in one of his hooks. “Get inside and put on a good show,” he ordered, gesturing to a flap in the tent that served as an entrance. “Madame Lulu said that if you don’t give the audience what they want, I’m allowed to use this tagliatelle grande.” “What’s a tagliatelle grande?” Colette asked. “Tagliatelle is a type of Italian noodle,” the hook-handed man explained, uncoiling the long and damp object, “and grande means ‘big’ in Italian. This is a big noodle that a carnival worker cooked up for me this morning.” Olaf’s comrade waved the big noodle over his head, and the Baudelaires and their coworkers heard a limp swishing sound as it moved slowly through the air, as if a large earthworm were crawling nearby. “If you don’t do what I say,” the hook-handed man continued, “I get to hit you with the tagliatelle grande, which I’ve heard is an unpleasant and somewhat sticky experience.” “Don’t worry, sir,” Hugo said. “We’re professionals.” “I’m glad to hear it,” the hook-handed man sneered, and followed them all into the House of Freaks. Inside, the tent looked even bigger, particularly because there wasn’t very much to see in such a large space. There was a wooden stage with a few folding chairs placed on it, and a banner overhead, which read HOUSE OF FREAKS in large, sloppy letters. There was a small stand where one of the white-faced women was selling cold beverages. And there were seven or eight people milling around, waiting for the show to begin. Madame Lulu had mentioned that business had been slow at Caligari Carnival, but the siblings had still expected a few more people to show up to see the carnival freaks. As the children and their co-workers approached the stage, the hookhanded man began speaking to the small group of people as if they were a vast crowd. “Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, adolescents of both genders,” he announced. “Hurry up and buy your delicious cold beverages, because the House of Freaks show is about to begin!” “Look at all those freaks!” giggled one member of the audience, a middle-aged man with several large pimples on his chin. “There’s a man with hooks instead of hands!” “I’m not one of the freaks,” the hook-handed man growled. “I work here at the carnival!” “Oh, I’m sorry,” the man said. “But if you don’t mind my saying so, if you purchased a pair of realistic hands no one would make that mistake.” “It’s not polite to comment on other people’s appearances,” the hook-handed man said sternly. “Now, ladies and gentlemen, gaze with horror on Hugo, the hunchback! Instead of a regular back, he has a big hump that makes him look very freakish!” “That’s true,” said the pimpled man, who seemed willing to giggle at one person or another. “What a freak!” The hook-handed man waved his large noodle in the air as a limp reminder to the Baudelaires and their coworkers. “Hugo!” he barked. “Put on your coat!” As the audience tittered, Hugo walked to the front of the stage and tried to put on the coat he was holding. Usually, if someone has a body with an unusual shape, they will hire a tailor to alter their clothing so it will fit comfortably and attractively, but as Hugo struggled with the coat, it was clear that no such tailor had been hired. Hugo’s hump wrinkled the back of the coat, and then stretched it, and then finally ripped it as he did up the buttons, so that within moments the coat was just a few pieces of tattered cloth. Blushing, Hugo retreated to the back of the stage and sat on a folding chair as the members of the tiny audience howled with laughter. “Isn’t that hilarious?” the hook-handed man said. “He can’t even put on a coat! What a freakish person! But wait, ladies and gentlemen- there’s more!” Olaf’s henchman shook the tagliatelle grande again while reaching into his pocket with his other hook. Smiling wickedly, he withdrew an ear of corn and held it up for the audience to see. “This is a simple ear of corn,” he announced. “It’s something that any normal person can eat. But here at Caligari Carnival, we don’t have a House of Normal People. We have a House of Freaks, with a brand-new freak that will turn this ear of corn into a hilarious mess!” Violet and Klaus sighed, and walked to the center of the stage, and I do not think that I have to describe this tiresome show any longer. You can undoubtedly guess that the two eldest Baudelaires were forced to eat another ear of corn while a small group of people laughed at them, and that Colette was forced to twist her body into unusual shapes and positions, and that Kevin had to write his name with both his left and right hands, and that finally poor Sunny was forced to growl at the audience, although she was not a ferocious person by nature and would have preferred to greet them politely. And you can imagine how the crowd reacted as the hook-handed man announced each person and forced them to do these things. The seven or eight people laughed, and shouted cruel names, and made terrible and tasteless jokes, and one woman even threw her cold beverage, paper cup and all, at Kevin, as if someone who was both right-handed and left-handed somehow deserved to have wet and sticky stains on his shirt. But what you may not be able to imagine, unless you have had a similar experience yourself, is how humiliating it was to participate in such a show. You might think that being humiliated, like riding a bicycle or decoding a secret message, would get easier after you had done it a few times, but the Baudelaires had been laughed at more than a few times and it didn’t make their experience in the House of Freaks easier at all. Violet remembered when a girl named Carmelita Spats had laughed at her and called her names, when the children were enrolled in Prufrock Preparatory School , but it still hurt her feelings when the hook-handed man announced her as something hilarious. Klaus remembered when Esme Squalor had insulted him at 667 Dark Avenue , but he still blushed when the audience pointed and giggled every time the ear of corn slipped out of his hands. And Sunny remembered all of the times Count Olaf had laughed at all three Baudelaires and their misfortune, but she still felt embarrassed and a little sick when the people called her “wolf freak” as she followed the other performers out of the tent when the show was over. The Baudelaire orphans even knew that they weren’t really a two-headed person and a wolf baby, but as they sat with their coworkers in the freaks’ caravan afterward, they felt so humiliated that it was as if they were as freakish as everyone thought. “I don’t like this place,” Violet said to Kevin and Colette, sharing a chair with her brother at the caravan’s table, while Hugo made hot chocolate at the stove. She was so upset that she almost forgot to speak in a low voice. “I don’t like being stared at, and I don’t like being laughed at. If people think it’s funny when someone drops an ear of corn, they should stay home and drop it themselves.” “Kiwoon!” Sunny agreed, forgetting to growl. She meant something along the lines of, “I thought I was going to cry when all those people were calling me 'freak,”’ but luckily only her siblings understood her, so she didn’t give away her disguise. “Don’t worry,” Klaus said to his sisters. “I don’t think we’ll stay here very long. The fortune-telling tent is closed today because Count Olaf and Madame Lulu are running that important errand.” The middle Baudelaire did not need to add that it would be a good time to sneak into the tent and find out if Lulu’s crystal ball really held the answers they were seeking. “Why do you care if Lulu’s tent is closed?” Colette asked. “You’re a freak, not a fortune teller.” “And why don’t you want to stay here?” Kevin asked. “Caligari Carnival hasn’t been very popular lately, but there’s nowhere else for a freak to go.” “Of course there is,” Violet said. “Lots of people are ambidextrous, Kevin. There are ambidextrous florists, and ambidextrous air-traffic controllers, and all sorts of things.” “You really think so?” Kevin asked. “Of course I do,” Violet said. “And it’s the same with contortionists and hunchbacks. All of us could find some other type of job where people didn’t think we were freakish at all.” “I’m not sure that’s true,” Hugo called over from the stove. “I think that a two-headed person is going to be considered pretty freakish no matter where they go.” “And it’s probably the same with an ambidextrous person,” Kevin said with a sigh. “Let’s try to forget our troubles and play dominoes,” Hugo said, bringing over a tray with six steaming mugs of hot chocolate. “I thought both of your heads might want to drink separately,” he explained with a smile, “particularly because this hot chocolate is a little bit unusual. Chabo the Wolf Baby added a little bit of cinnamon.” “Chabo added it?” Klaus asked with surprise, as Sunny growled modestly. “Yes,” Hugo said. “At first I thought it was some freaky wolf recipe, but it’s actually quite tasty.” “That was a clever idea, Chabo,” Klaus said, and gave his sister a squinty smile. It seemed only a little while ago that the youngest Baudelaire couldn’t walk, and was small enough to fit inside a birdcage, and now she was developing her own interests, and was big enough to seem half wolf. “You should be very proud of yourself,” Hugo agreed. “If you weren’t a freak, Chabo, you could grow up to be an excellent chef.” “She could be a chef anyway,” Violet said. “Elliot, would you mind if we stepped outside to enjoy our hot chocolate?” “That’s a good idea,” Klaus said quickly. “I’ve always considered hot chocolate to be an outdoor beverage, and I’d like to take a peek in the gift caravan.” “Grr,” Sunny growled, but her siblings knew she meant “I’ll come with you,” and she crawled over to where Violet and Klaus were awkwardly rising from their chair. “Don’t be too long,” Colette said. “We’re not supposed to wander around the carnival.” “We’ll just drink our hot chocolate and come right back,” Klaus promised. “I hope you don’t get in trouble,” Kevin said. “I hate to think of the tagliatelle grande hitting both of your heads.” The Baudelaires were just about to point out that a blow from the tagliatelle grande probably wouldn’t hurt one bit, when they heard a noise which was far more fearsome than a large noodle waving in the air. Even from inside the caravan, the children could hear a loud, creaky noise they recognized from their long trip into the hinterlands. “That sounds like that gentleman friend of Madame Lulu’s,” Hugo said. “That’s the sound of his car.” “There’s another sound, too,” Colette said. “Listen.” The children listened and heard that the contortionist had spoken the truth. Accompanying the roar of the engine was another roar, one that sounded deeper and angrier than any automobile. The Baudelaires knew that you cannot judge something by its sound any more than you can judge a person by the way they look, but this roar was so loud and fierce that the youngsters could not imagine that it brought good news. Here I must interrupt the story I am writing, and tell you another story in order to make an important point. This second story is fictional, a word which here means “somebody made it up one day,” as opposed to the story of the Baudelaire orphans, which somebody merely wrote down, usually at night. It is called “The Story of Queen Debbie and Her Boyfriend, Tony,” and it goes something like this: The Story of Queen Debbie and her boyfriend, Tony. Once upon a time, there lived a fictional queen named Queen Debbie, who ruled over the land where this story takes place, which is made up. This fictional land had lollipop trees growing everywhere, and singing mice that did all of the chores, and there were fierce and fictional lions who guarded the palace against fictional enemies. Queen Debbie had a boyfriend named Tony, who lived in the neighboring fictional kingdom. Because they lived so far away, Debbie and Tony couldn’t see each other that often, but occasionally they would go out to dinner and a movie, or do other fictional things together. Tony’s birthday arrived, and Queen Debbie had some royal business and couldn’t travel to see him, but she sent him a nice card and a myna bird in a shiny cage. The proper thing to do if you receive a present, of course, is to write a thank-you note, but Tony was not a particularly proper person, and Called Debbie to complain. “Debbie, this is Tony,” Tony said. “I got the birthday present you sent me, and I don’t like it at all.” “I’m sorry to hear that,” Queen Debbie said, plucking a lollipop off a nearby tree. “I picked out the myna bird especially for you. What sort of present would you prefer?” “I think you should give me a bunch of valuable diamonds,” said Tony, who was as greedy as he was fictional “Diamonds?” Queen Debbie said. “But myna birds can cheer you up when you are sad. You can teach them to sit on your hand, and sometimes they even talk.” “I want diamonds,” Tony said. “But diamonds are so valuable,” Queen Debbie said. “If I send you diamonds in the mail, they’ll probably get stolen on their way to you, and then you won’t have any birthday present at all.” “I want diamonds,” whined Tony, who was really becoming quite tiresome. “I know what I’ll do,” Queen Debbie said with a faint smile. “I’ll feed my diamonds to the royal lions, and then send the lions to your kingdom. No one would dare attack a bunch of fierce lions, so the diamonds are sure to arrive safely.” “Hurry up,” Tony said. “It’s supposed to be my special day.” It was easy for Queen Debbie to hurry up, because the singing mice who lived in her palace did all of the necessary chores, so it only took a few minutes for her to feed a bunch of diamonds to her lions, wrapping the jewels in tuna fish first so the lions would agree to eat them. Then she instructed the lions to travel to the neighboring kingdom to deliver the present. Tony waited impatiently outside his house for the rest of the day, eating all of the ice cream and cake and teasing his myna bird, and finally, at just about sunset, he saw the lions approaching on the horizon and ran over to collect his present. “Give me those diamonds, you stupid lions!” Tony cried, and there is no need to tell you the rest of this story, which has the rather obvious moral “Never look a gift lion in the mouth.” The point is that there are times where the arrival of a bunch of lions is good news, particularly in a fictional story where the lions are not real and so probably will not hurt you. There are some cases, as in the case of Queen Debbie and her boyfriend, Tony, where the arrival of lions means that the story is about to get much better. But I am sad to say that the case of the Baudelaire orphans is not one of those times. The story of the Baudelaires does not take place in a fictional land where lollipops grow on trees and singing mice do all of the chores. The story of the Baudelaires takes place in a very real world, where some people are laughed at just because they have something wrong with them, and where children can find themselves all alone in the world, struggling to understand the sinister mystery that surrounds them, and in this real world the arrival of lions means that the story is about to get much worse, and if you do not have a stomach for such a story-any more than lions have a stomach for diamonds not coated in tuna fish-it would be best if you turned around right now and ran the other way, as the Baudelaires wished they could as they exited the caravan and saw what Count Olaf had brought with him when he returned from his errand. Count Olaf drove his black automobile between the rows of caravans, nearly running over several visitors to the carnival, stopped right at the tent for the House of Freaks, and turned off the engine, which ended the creaky roar the children had recognized. But the other, angrier roar continued as Olaf got out of the car, followed by Madame Lulu, and pointed with a flourish to a trailer that was attached to the rear of the automobile. The trailer was really more of a metal cage on wheels, and through the bars of the cage the Baudelaires could see what the villain was pointing at. The trailer was filled with lions, packed in so tightly that the children couldn’t tell just how many there were. The lions were unhappy to be traveling in such tight quarters, and were showing their unhappiness by scratching at the cage with their claws, snapping at one another with their long teeth, and roaring as loudly and as fiercely as they could. Some of Count Olaf’s henchmen gathered around, along with several visitors to the carnival, to see what was going on, and Olaf tried to say something to them, but couldn’t be heard over the lions’ roars. Frowning, the villain removed a whip from his pocket and whipped at the lions through the trailer bars. Like people, animals will become frightened and likely do whatever you say if you whip them enough, and the lions finally quieted down so Olaf could make his announcement. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he said, “boys and girls, freaks and normal people, Caligari Carnival is proud to announce the arrival of these fierce lions, who will be used in a new attraction.” “That’s good news,” said someone in the crowd, “because the souvenirs in the gift caravan are pretty lousy.” “It is good news,” Count Olaf agreed with a snarl, and turned to face the Baudelaires. His eyes were shining very brightly, and the siblings shivered in their disguises as he looked at the children and then at the gathering crowd. “Things are about to get much better around here,” he said, and the Baudelaire orphans knew that this was as fictional as anything they could imagine. and experiencing the queasy feeling of deja. “These lions are going to be the most exciting thing at Caligari Carnival!” Olaf announced, as more and more people drew near to see what all the fuss was about. “As you all know, unless you are incredibly dim-witted, a stubborn mule will move in the proper direction if there is a carrot in front of it, and a stick behind it. It will move toward the carrot, because it wants the reward of food, and away from the stick, because it does not want the punishment of pain. And these lions will do the same.” “What’s going on?” Hugo asked the children, walking out of the caravan with Colette and Kevin close behind. “Deja,” Sunny said bitterly. Even the youngest Baudelaire recognized Count Olaf’s cruel speech about the stubborn mule from when the three children had been living in Olaf’s house. Back then, the villain had talked about a stubborn mule in order to force Violet to marry him, a plot that thankfully had been foiled at the last minute, but now he was using the very same words to cook up another scheme, and it gave the siblings a queasy feeling to watch it happen. “These lions,” Count Olaf said, “will do as I say, because they want to avoid the punishment of this whip!” With a flourish, he flicked his whip at the lions again, who cowered behind the bars, and some of the visitors to the carnival applauded. “But if the whip is the stick,” asked the bald man, “what is the carrot?” “The carrot?” Olaf repeated, and laughed in a particularly nasty way. “The reward for the lions who obey me will be a delicious meal. Lions are carnivorous, which means they eat meat, and here at Caligari Carnival theyTl have the finest meat we have to offer.” He turned and pointed his whip at the entrance to the freaks’ caravan, where the Baudelaires were standing with their coworkers. “The freaks you see here aren’t normal people, and so they lead depressing lives,” he announced. “TheyTl be happy to exhibit themselves in the name of entertainment.” “Of course we will,” Colette said. “We do it every day.” “Then you won’t mind being the most important part of the lion show,” Olaf replied. “We’re not going to feed these lions regular meals, so theyTl be very, very hungry by the time the show begins. Each day, instead of a show at the House of Freaks, we’ll randomly choose one freak and watch the lions devour them.” Everyone cheered again, except for Hugo, Colette, Kevin, and the three siblings, who all stood in horrified silence. “That will be exciting!” said the man with pimples on his face. “Just think-violence and sloppy eating combined in one fabulous show!” “I couldn’t agree more!” said a woman who was standing nearby. “It was hilarious watching that two-headed freak eat, but it’ll be even more hilarious watching the two headed freak get eaten! “I’d prefer to watch the hunchback get eaten,” said someone else in the crowd. “He’s so funny! He doesn’t even have a regular back!” “The fun starts tomorrow afternoon!” Count Olaf cried. “See you then!” “I can’t wait,” said the woman, as the crowd began to disperse, a word which here means “walk off to purchase souvenirs or leave the carnival.” “I’m going to tell all my friends.” “I’m going to call that reporter at The Daily Punctilio,” the man with pimples said, heading toward the phone booth. “This carnival is about to get very popular, and maybe theyTl write an article about it.” “You were right, boss,” said the hook-handed man. “Things are about to get much better here.” “Of course he was right, please,” Madame Lulu said. “He is brilliant man, and brave man, and generous man. He is brilliant for thinking of the lion show, please. He is brave man for hitting lions with whip, please. And he is generous man for giving lions to Lulu.” “He gave those lions to you?” asked a sinister voice. “They were presents?” Now that most of the carnival visitors had departed, the Baudelaires could see Esme Squalor step forward from the doorway of another caravan and walk toward Count Olaf and Madame Lulu. As she passed the lions’ trailer, she ran her enormous fingernails along the bars, and the lions whimpered in fear. “So you gave Madame Lulu some lions,” she said. “What did you get me?” Count Olaf scratched his head with one scraggly hand, and looked a little embarrassed. “Nothing,” he admitted. “But you can share my whip, if you’d like.” Madame Lulu leaned over and gave Olaf a kiss on the cheek. “He gave lions to me, please, because I did such wonderful fortune-telling.” “You should have seen it, Esme,” Olaf said. “Lulu and I entered the fortune-telling tent and turned out all the lights, and the crystal ball began to hum its magical hum. Then, magical lightning crackled above us, and Madame Lulu told me to concentrate as hard as I could. While I closed my eyes, she gazed into her crystal ball and told me that one of the Baudelaire parents is alive and hiding in the Mortmain Mountains . As a reward, I gave her these lions.” “So Madame Lulu needs a carrot, too, eh?” the hook-handed man said with a laugh. “First thing tomorrow morning,” Olaf continued, “Madame Lulu will consult her crystal ball again, and tell me where the Baudelaires are.” Esme glared at Lulu. “And what sort of gift will you give then, Olaf?” “Be reasonable, my dear,” Count Olaf said to his girlfriend. “The lions will make Caligari Carnival much more popular, so Madame Lulu can devote her time to fortune telling and give us the information we need to finally steal the Baudelaire fortune.” “I hate to criticize,” Hugo said hesitantly, “but is there any way we can make the carnival more popular without feeding us to the lions? I must confess that I’m a little nervous about that part.” “You heard the crowd when I told them about the new attraction,” Count Olaf said. “They couldn’t wait to see the lions devour you, and all of us need to do our part to give people what they want. Your part is to return to the freaks’ caravan until tomorrow. And the rest of us will do our part and start digging the pit.” “Pit?” one of the white-faced women asked. “What do we need a pit for?” “To keep the lions in,” Olaf replied, “so they only eat whichever freak jumps down there. Let’s dig it over by the roller coaster.” “Good idea, boss,” the bald man said. “There are shovels in tool caravan,” Lulu said. “I will show you, please.” “I’m not going to dig a pit,” Esme announced as the others walked away. “I might break a nail. Besides, I need to talk to Count Olaf-alone.” “Oh, all right,” Count Olaf said. “Let’s go in the guest caravan where we won’t be disturbed.” Olaf and Esme walked off in one direction, and Madame Lulu led the henchmen in the other, leaving the three children alone with their coworkers. A Series of Unfortunate Events 9 - The Carnivorous Carnival “Well, we’d better go inside,” Colette said. “Maybe we can think of a way not to get eaten.” “Oh, let’s not think about those fearsome creatures,” Hugo said with a shudder. “Let’s play another game of dominoes instead.” “Chabo, my other head, and I will be along in a moment,” Violet said. “We want to finish our hot chocolate.” “You might as well enjoy it,” Kevin said glumly, following Hugo and Colette back into the freaks’ caravan. “It might turn out to be the last hot chocolate you ever drink.” Kevin shut the door with both hands, and the Baudelaires stepped farther away from the caravan so they could talk without being overheard. “Adding cinnamon to hot chocolate is a terrific idea, Sunny,” Violet said, “but I’m having trouble enjoying it.” “Ificat,” Sunny said, which meant “Me too.” “Count Olaf’s latest scheme leaves a bad taste in my mouth,” Klaus said, “and I don’t think cinnamon will help.” “We have to get into that fortune-telling tent,” Violet said, “and this may be our only chance.” “Do you think it’s really true?” Klaus asked. “Do you think Madame Lulu really saw something in her crystal ball?” “I don’t know,” Violet said, “but I do know from my studies of electricity that lightning can’t appear inside a tent. Something mysterious is going on, and we need to find out what it is.” “Chow!” Sunny said, which meant “Before we’re thrown to the lions!” “But do you think it’s real?” Klaus asked. “I don’t know,” Violet said testily, a word which here means “in her regular voice, forgetting her disguise because she was becoming very frustrated and upset.” “I don’t know if Madame Lulu is a fortune-teller. I don’t know how Count Olaf always knows where we are. I don’t know where the Snicket file is, or why someone else had Olaf’s tattoo, or what V.F.D. stands for, or why there’s a secret passageway that leads to our house, or-” “If our parents are alive?” Klaus interrupted. “Do you know if one of our parents is really alive?” The middle Baudelaire’s voice quivered, and his sisters turned to look at him-a feat that was difficult for Violet, who was still sharing his shirt-and saw that he was crying. Violet leaned so that her head was against his while Sunny put her mug down and crawled closer to hug his knees, and the three Baudelaires stood quietly together for a few moments. Grief, a type of sadness that most often occurs when you have lost someone you love, is a sneaky thing, because it can disappear for a long time, and then pop back up when you least expect it. When I am able, I go out walking on Briny Beach very early in the morning, which is the best time to find materials important to the Baudelaire case, and the ocean is so peaceful that I feel peaceful, too, as if I am no longer grieving for the woman I love and will never see again. But then, when I am cold and duck into a teashop where the owner is expecting me, I have only to reach for the sugar bowl before my grief returns, and I find myself crying so loudly that other customers ask me if I could possibly lower my sobs. With the Baudelaire orphans, it was as if their grief were a very heavy object that they each took turns carrying so that they would not all be crying at once, but sometimes the object was too heavy for one of them to move without weeping, so Violet and Sunny stood next to Klaus, reminding him that this was something they could all carry together until at last they found a safe place to lay it down. “I’m sorry I was testy, Klaus,” Violet said. “There’s just so much we don’t know that it’s hard to think about all at once.” “Chithvee,” Sunny said, which meant “But I can’t help thinking about our parents.” “Me neither,” Violet admitted. “I keep wondering if one of them survived the fire.” “But if they did,” Klaus said, “why would they be hiding in a faraway place? Why aren’t they trying to find us?” “Maybe they are,” Violet said quietly. “Maybe they’re searching for us everywhere they can think of, but they can’t find us, because we’ve been hiding and disguising ourselves for so long.” “But why doesn’t our mother or father contact Mr. Poe?” Klaus said. “We’ve tried to contact him,” Violet pointed out, “but he doesn’t answer our telegrams, and we can’t seem to reach him by phone. If one of our parents has survived the fire, maybe they’re having the same wretched luck.” “Galfuskin,” Sunny pointed out. By “Galfuskin” she meant something like, “This is all guesswork-let’s go to the fortune-telling tent and see if we can find out anything for sure, and we’d better do it soon before the others get back.” “You’re right, Sunny,” Violet said, and put her mug down next to Sunny’s. Klaus put down his mug, and all three Baudelaires took disguised steps away from their hot chocolate. Violet and Klaus walked awkwardly in their shared pants, leaning against one another with every step, and Sunny followed alongside, still crawling so that she would look half wolf if anyone watched them as they made their way through the carnival toward the fortune-telling tent. But no one was watching the Baudelaire orphans. The visitors to the carnival had gone home to tell their friends about the lion show happening the next day. The children’s coworkers were in the freaks’ caravan bemoaning their fate, a word which here means “playing dominoes, rather than trying to think of a way out of their predicament.” Madame Lulu and Olaf’s assistants were digging the pit, over by the roller coaster still covered in ivy. Count Olaf and Esme Squalor were bickering in the guest caravan, which was located at the far end of the carnival where I had stayed with my brother so many years ago, and the rest of Madame Lulu’s employees were closing down the carnival and hoping that someday they might work in a less miserable place. So nobody was watching as the children approached the tent next to Lulu’s caravan, and stopped for a minute at the flap that led inside. The fortune-telling tent no longer stands at Caligari Carnival, or anywhere else for that matter. Anyone wandering through the blackened and desolate hinterlands would scarcely be able to tell that there had been any tents at all. But even if everything looked exactly the same as when the Baudelaire orphans stayed there, it is unlikely that a traveler would understand what the tent’s decoration meant, as nowadays there are so few living experts on such subjects, and the experts who are alive are all in terrible circumstances, or, in my case, on their way to terrible circumstances in the hopes of making them less terrible. But the Baudelaire orphans- who, as you will recall, had only arrived at the carnival the night before, and so had never seen the fortune-telling tent in daylight until this very moment-could see how the tent was decorated, which is why they stopped to stare at it. At first glance, the painting on the fortune-telling tent seemed to depict an eye, like the decoration on Madame Lulu’s caravan and the tattoo on Count Olaf’s ankle. The three children had seen similar eyes wherever they went, from a building in the shape of an eye when they were working in a lumbermill, to an eye on Esme Squalor’s purse when they were hiding in a hospital, to a huge swarm of eyes that surrounded them in their most frightening nightmares, and although the siblings never understood quite what these eyes meant, they were so weary of gazing at them that they would never pause to look at one again. But there are many things in life that become different if you take a long look at them, and as the children paused in front of the fortune-telling tent, the painting seemed to change before their very eyes, until it did not seem like a painting at all, but an insignia. An insignia is sort of a mark that usually stands for an organization or a business, and the mark can be of any sort whatsoever. Sometimes an insignia can be a simple shape, such as a wavy line to indicate an organization concerned with rivers or oceans, or a square to indicate an organization concerned with geometry or sugar cubes. Sometimes an insignia can be a small picture of something, such as a torch, to indicate an organization that is flammable, or the three-eyed girl outside the House of Lreaks, indicating that people who were unusual in some way were on display inside. And sometimes an insignia can be part of the name of the organization, such as the first few letters, or its initials. The Baudelaires, of course, were not involved in any sort of business, aside from disguising themselves as carnival freaks, and as far as they knew they were not members of an organization of any kind, and they had never even been to the hinterlands until Count Olaf’s car had taken them down Rarely Ridden Road, but the three children took a long look at the insignia on Madame Lulu’s tent, because they knew that it was important to them somehow, as if whoever had painted the insignia knew they would come here, and wanted to bring them inside. “Do you think ...” Klaus said, his voice trailing off as he squinted at the tent. “I didn’t see it at first glance,” Violet said, “but as I took a long look ...” “Volu ...” Sunny said, and without another word the three children peered into the entrance, and, seeing no sign of anyone inside, took a few steps forward. If someone had been watching the youngsters, they would have seen these few hesitant steps as they entered the fortune-teller’s tent as quietly as they could. But there was no one watching. There was no one to see the flap of cloth as it closed quietly behind them, making the whole tent shiver ever so slightly, and there was no one to notice that the painting shivered, too. There was no one watching the Baudelaire orphans as they drew closer to finding the answers to their questions, or solving the mysteries of their lives. There was no one to take a long look at the painting on the tent to see that it was not an image of an eye, as it appeared to be at first glance, but an insignia, standing for an organization the children knew only as V.F.D. the bottom of your mattress any time you are at home. It is difficult to hide a symphony orchestra, because you usually need to rent a soundproof room and borrow as many sleeping bags as you can find, but it is easy to hide a secret about a symphony orchestra, because you can merely whisper it into the ear of a trustworthy friend or music critic. And it is difficult to hide yourself, because you sometimes need to stuff yourself into the trunk of an automobile, or concoct a disguise out of whatever you can find, but it is easy to hide a secret about yourself, because you can merely type it into a book and hope it falls into the right hands. My dear sister, if you are reading this, I am still alive, and heading north to try and find you. Had the Baudelaire orphans been looking for an airplane as they stepped inside Madame Lulu’s fortune-telling tent, they would have known to look for the tip of a wing, sticking out from under an enormous black tablecloth decorated with shiny silver stars, which hung over a table in the center of the tent. Had they been looking for a symphony orchestra, they would have known to listen for the sound of someone coughing or bumping up against an oboe as they hid in the corners of the tent, which were covered in heavy curtains. But the children were not looking for methods of air travel or professional musicians. They were looking for secrets, and the tent was so big that they scarcely knew where to begin looking. Was there news of the Baudelaire parents hidden in the cupboard that stood near the entrance? Could there be information about the Snicket file stuffed into the large trunk that stood in one of the corners? And was it possible the children could find out the meaning of V.F.D. by gazing into the crystal ball placed in the center of the table? Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked around the tent, and then at one another, and it seemed that the secrets concerning them could be hidden just about anywhere. “Where do you think we should look?” Violet asked. “I don’t know,” Klaus replied, squinting all around him. “I’m not even sure what to look for.” “Well, maybe we should look for answers the way Count Olaf did,” Violet said. “He told the whole story of his fortune-telling experience.” “I remember,” Klaus said. “First he entered Madame Lulu’s tent. We’ve done that. Then, he said they turned out all the lights.” The Baudelaires looked up, and noticed for the first time that the ceiling of the tent was decorated with small lights in the shape of stars, matching the stars on the tablecloth. “Switch!” Sunny said, pointing to a pair of switches attached to one of the tent poles. “Good work, Sunny,” Violet said. “Here, Klaus, walk with me so I can get a look at those switches.” The two older Baudelaires walked freakishly over to the pole, but when they reached the switches Violet frowned and shook her head. “What’s wrong?” Klaus asked. “I wish I had a ribbon,” Violet said, “to tie up my hair. It’s hard to think seriously with my powdery hair getting in my eyes. But my hair ribbon is somewhere at Heimlich... .” Her voice trailed off, and Klaus saw that she had reached her hand into the pocket of Count Olaf’s pants and was drawing out a ribbon that looked just like the one she usually wore. “Yerz,” Sunny said. “It is mine,” Violet said, looking at it closely. “Count Olaf must have kept it when he was preparing me for surgery, and left it in his pocket.” “I’m glad you got it back,” Klaus said, with a slight shudder. “I don’t like to think about Olaf getting his filthy hands on our possessions. Do you need some help tying your hair up? It might be difficult using only one hand, and I don’t think you should take your other one out from under the shirt. We don’t want to mess up our disguise.” “I think I can manage it with one hand,” Violet said. “Ah, there we go. I feel less like a freak and more like Violet Baudelaire with my hair up like this. Now, let’s see. Both these switches are attached to wires that run up to the top of the tent. One of them obviously controls the lights, but what does the other one do?” The Baudelaires looked up again, and saw something else attached to the ceiling of the tent. In between the stars was a small, round mirror, hanging from a piece of metal, which held it at an odd angle. Attached to the metal was a long strip of rubber, which led to a large knot of wires and gears, which in turn was attached to some more mirrors arranged in a sort of wheel. “What?” Sunny asked. “I don’t know,” Klaus said. “It sure doesn’t look like anything I’ve read about.” “It’s an invention of some sort,” Violet said, studying it carefully. She began to point to different parts of the strange device, but it was as if she were talking to herself instead of her siblings. “That piece of rubber looks like a fan belt, which transmits torque from an automotive engine in order to help cool the radiator. But why would you want to-oh, I see. It moves those other mirrors around, which-but how would-wait a minute. Klaus, see that small hole in the upper corner of the tent?” “Not without my glasses,” Klaus said. “Well, there’s a small rip up there,” Violet said. “What direction are we facing, if we face that small hole?” “Let me think for a moment,” Klaus said. “Last night, the sun was setting as we got out of the car.” “Yirat,” Sunny said, which meant “I remember-the famous hinterlands sunset.” “And the car is over there,” Klaus said, turning around and dragging his older sister with them. “So that way is west, and the rip in the tent faces east.” “East,” Violet said with a smile, “the direction of the sunrise.” “That’s right,” Klaus said, “but what does that have to do with anything?” Violet said nothing, just stood and smiled at her siblings, and Klaus and Sunny smiled back. Even with the fake scars penciled on her face, Violet was smiling in a way the other Baudelaires recognized at once. It was the sort of smile that appeared when Violet had figured out a difficult problem, usually having to do with an invention of some sort. She had smiled this way when the siblings were in jail, and she figured out how a pitcher of water could help break them out. She had smiled this way when she had looked over some evidence she had found in a suitcase, which could convince Mr. Poe that their Uncle Monty had been murdered. And she was smiling this way now, as she looked up at the strange device on the ceiling, and then back down at the two switches on the wall. “Watch this,” she said, and flicked the first switch. Immediately, the gears began to spin, and the long strip of rubber began to move, and the wheel of mirrors became a whirring circle. “But what does it do?” Klaus said. “Listen,” Violet said, and the children could hear a low, buzzing hum coming from the machine. “That’s the hum Count Olaf was talking about. He thought it was coming from the crystal ball, but it was coming from this invention.” “I thought a magical hum sounded fishy,” Klaus said. “Legror?” Sunny asked, which meant “But what about the lightning?” “You see how that larger mirror is angled?” Violet said. “It’s pointed so that it reflects any light that comes out of the small hole in the tent.” “But there isn’t any light coming from it,” Klaus said. “Not now,” Violet said, “because the hole is facing east, and it’s late in the afternoon. But in the morning, when Madame Lulu does her fortune-telling, the sun is rising, and the light of the sunrise would shine right on that mirror. And that mirror would reflect it onto the other mirrors, put into motion by the torquated belt-” “Wait,” Klaus said. “I don’t understand.” “That’s O.K.,” Violet said. “Count Olaf doesn’t understand either. When he walks into the tent in the morning, Madame Lulu turns this invention on and the room is filled with flickering lights. Remember when I used the refraction of light to make a signaling device at Lake Lachrymose ? It’s the same thing, but Lulu tells him that it’s magical lightning.” “But wouldn’t Olaf look up and see that it wasn’t magical lightning?” “Not if the lights were off,” Violet said, flicking the other switch, and above them the stars went out. The cloth of the tent was so thick that no light from outside shone in, and the Baudelaires found themselves in utter darkness. It reminded the children of when they were climbing down the elevator shaft of 667 Dark Avenue , except that had been silent, and here they were surrounded by the sound of the machine’s hum. “Eerie,” Sunny said. “It is spooky,” Klaus agreed. “No wonder Olaf thought it was a magical hum.” “Imagine how it would feel if the room were flickering with lightning,” Violet said. “That’s the sort of trickery that makes people believe in fortune-telling.” “So Madame Lulu is a fake,” Klaus said. Violet flicked both switches again, and the lights went on as the invention went off. “She’s a fake, all right,” Violet said. “I bet that crystal ball is just plain glass. She tricks Count Olaf into thinking she’s a fortune-teller, so he’ll buy her things like lions and new turbans.” “Chesro?” Sunny asked, and looked up at her siblings. By “Chesro?” Sunny meant something along the lines of, “But if she’s a fake, how did she know that one of our parents was alive?” but her siblings were almost afraid to answer her. “She didn’t, Sunny,” Violet said quietly. “Madame Lulu’s information is as fake as her magic lightning.” Sunny made a small, quiet sound that her siblings could scarcely hear behind her beard, and hugged Violet and Klaus’s legs while her little body shivered with sadness. Suddenly, it was Sunny’s turn to bear the burden of Baudelaire grief, but she did not bear it for long, because Klaus thought of something that made the Baudelaires collect themselves. “Wait a minute,” Klaus said. “Madame Lulu may be a fake, but her information might be real. After all, she always told Count Olaf where we were staying, and she was right about that.” “That’s true,” Violet said. “I forgot about that.” “After all,” Klaus said, reaching with difficulty into his pocket. “We first thought that one of our parents might be alive after we read this.” He unfolded a piece of paper that his sisters recognized as the thirteenth page of the Snicket file. There was a photograph, stapled to the page, which showed the Baudelaire parents, standing next to one man the Baudelaires had met briefly at the Village of Lowl Devotees, and one man the children did not recognize, and below the photograph was a sentence Klaus had read so many times that he did not need his glasses to read it again. “‘Because of the evidence discussed on page nine, experts now suspect that there may in fact be one survivor of the fire, but the survivor’s whereabouts are unknown,”’ he recited. “Maybe Madame Lulu knows about this.” “But how?” Violet asked. “Well, let’s see,” Klaus said. “Count Olaf said that after the appearance of magical lightning, Madame Lulu told him to close his eyes so she could concentrate.” “There!” Sunny said, pointing to the table with the crystal ball. “No, Sunny,” Violet said. “The crystal ball couldn’t tell her. It’s not magical, remember?” “There!” Sunny insisted, and walked over to the table. Violet and Klaus followed her, walking awkwardly, and saw what she was pointing at. Sticking out from under the tablecloth was a tiny speck of white. Kneeling down in their shared pants, the older Baudelaires could see it was the very edge of a piece of paper. “Good thing you’re closer to the ground than we are, Sunny,” said Klaus. “We never would have noticed that.” “But what is it?” Violet asked, sliding it out from under the tablecloth. Klaus reached into his pocket again, removed his glasses, and put them on. “Now I feel less like a freak and more like myself,” he said with a smile, and began to read out loud. “‘My Dear Duchess, Your masked ball sounds like a fantastic evening, and I look forward to ...’” His voice trailed off, and he scanned the rest of the page. “It’s just a note about some party,” he said. “What’s it doing underneath a tablecloth?” Violet asked. “It doesn’t seem important to me,” Klaus said, “but I guess it was important enough to Lulu that she hid it. “Let’s see what else she’s hiding,” Violet said, and lifted the end of the tablecloth. All three Baudelaires gasped. It may seem strange to read that there was a library underneath Madame Lulu’s table, but as the Baudelaire orphans knew, there are almost as many kinds of libraries as there are kinds of readers. The children had encountered a private library at the home of Justice Strauss, who they missed very much, and a scientific library at the home of Uncle Monty, who they would never see again. They had seen an academic library at Prufrock Preparatory School, and a library at Lucky Smells Lumbermill that was under stocked, a word which here means “empty except for three books.” There are public libraries and medical libraries, secret libraries and forbidden libraries, libraries of records and libraries of auction catalogs, and there are archival libraries, which is a fancy term for a collection of files and documents rather than books. Archival libraries are usually found at universities, museums, or other quiet places-such as underneath a table-where people can go and examine whatever papers they like, in order to find the information they need. The Baudelaire orphans gazed at the enormous piles of papers that were stuffed underneath the table, and realized that Madame Lulu had an archival library that just might contain the information they were looking for. “Look at all this,” Violet said. “There are newspaper articles, magazines, letters, files, photographs-all sorts of documents. Madame Lulu tells people to close their eyes and concentrate, and then she looks through all this material and finds the answers.” “And they can’t hear her shuffling paper,” Klaus said, “over the hum of the lightning device.” “It’s like taking a test,” Violet said, “with all the answers hidden in your school desk.” “Cheat!” Sunny said. “It is cheating,” Klaus said, “but maybe her cheating can help us. Look, here’s an article from The Daily Punctilio.” “VILLAGE OF FOWL DEVOTEES TO PARTICIPATE IN NEW GUARDIAN PROGRAM,” Violet said, peering over his shoulder at the headline. “‘The Council of Elders announced yesterday that they would care for the troublesome Baudelaire orphans,’” Klaus read, ‘“as part of the city government’s new program inspired by the aphorism ”It takes a village to raise a child.“’” “That’s how Count Olaf found us!” Violet said. “Madame Lulu pretended that the crystal ball told her where we were, but she just read it in the newspaper!” Klaus flipped through a pile of paper until he saw his own name on a list. “Look,” he said. “It’s a list of new students at Prufrock Preparatory School. Somehow Madame Lulu got ahold of it and passed on the information to Olaf.” “Us!” Sunny said, showing a photograph to her siblings. Violet and Klaus looked at it and saw their sister was right. The youngest Baudelaire had found a small, blurry photograph of the three Baudelaires sitting on the edge of Damocles Dock, where they had arrived for their stay with Aunt Josephine. In the background they could see Mr. Poe reaching his hand out to call for a taxi, while Violet stared glumly into a paper sack. “Those are the peppermints Mr. Poe gave us,” Violet said quietly. “I’d almost forgotten about those.” “But who took this?” Klaus asked. “Who was watching us that day?” “Back,” Sunny said, and turned the photograph over. On the back, someone had written something in messy handwriting the children could scarcely read. “I think it says, ‘This might be hopeful,”’ Klaus said. “Or ‘helpful,’” Violet said. “‘This might be helpful.’ And it’s signed with one initial-I think it’s an R, or maybe a K. But who would want a photograph of us?” “It gives me the shivers to think someone took our picture when we didn’t know it,” Klaus said. “That means someone could be taking our photograph at any moment.” The Baudelaires looked around hurriedly, but could see no photographer lurking in the tent. “Let’s calm down,” Violet said. “Remember the time we watched a scary movie when our parents were out for the evening, and we were jumpy for the rest of the night? Every time we heard a noise we thought vampires were breaking into the house to take us away.” “Maybe somebody was breaking into the house to take us away,” Klaus said, and pointed to the photograph. “Sometimes things can go on right in front of your nose, but you don’t know about them.” ‘Heebie-jeebies,“ Sunny said, which meant something like, ’’Let’s get out of here. I’m really getting the creeps.” “Me, too,” Violet said, “but let’s take all these documents with us. Maybe we can find someplace to look through them and find the information we want.” “We can’t take all these papers with us,” Klaus said. “There are stacks and stacks. It would be like checking out every single book in the library, just to find the one you wanted to read.” “We’ll stuff our pockets,” Violet said. “My pockets are already stuffed,” Klaus said. “I have page thirteen of the Snicket file, and all those fragments from the Quagmire notebooks. I can’t get rid of those, but I don’t have room for anything else. It’s as if all the world’s secrets are here on paper, but which secrets do we take with us?” “Maybe we can look through it quickly right here,” Violet said, “and take anything that has our names on it.” “That’s not the best method of research,” Klaus said, “but I guess it will have to do. Here, help me lift the tablecloth so we can see everything better.” Violet and Klaus began to lift the tablecloth together, but it was quite difficult to do in their disguise. Like eating an ear of corn, lifting the tablecloth while sharing a shirt was trickier than it looked, and the tablecloth slid back and forth as the older Baudelaires struggled with it. As I’m sure you know, if you slide a tablecloth back and forth, the things sitting on the tablecloth will slide, too, and Madame Lulu’s crystal ball began to slide closer and closer to the edge of the table. “Mishap,” Sunny said. “Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “Let’s be careful.” “Right,” Klaus said. “We don’t want-” Klaus did not get to finish his sentence about what he and his sisters did not want, because with a dull thunk and a loud, clattering crash! his sentence was finished for him. One of the most troublesome things in life is that what you do or do not want has very little to do with what does or does not happen. You might want to become the sort of author who works calmly at home, for example, but something could happen that would lead you to become the sort of author who works frantically in the homes of other people, often without their knowledge. You might want to marry someone you love very much, but something could happen that would prevent the two of you from ever seeing one another again. You might want to find out something important about your parents, but something could happen that would mean you wouldn’t find out for quite some time. And you might want, at a particular moment, for a crystal ball not to fall off a table and shatter into a thousand pieces, and even if it happened that the crystal ball did shatter, you might want the sound not to attract anyone’s attention. But the sad truth is that the truth is sad, and that what you want does not matter. A series of unfortunate events can happen to anyone, no matter what they want, and even though the three children did not want the flap of the fortune-telling tent to open, and they did not want Madame Lulu to step inside, as the afternoon turned to evening at Caligari Carnival, everything happened to the Baudelaire orphans that they did not want at all. CHAPTER Seven “What are you doing here, please?” Madame Lulu snarled. She strode quickly toward them, her own eyes glaring as angrily as the eye she was wearing around her neck. “What are the freaks doing in the tent, please, and what are the freaks doing under the table, please, and please answer me this instant, please, or you will be very, very sorry, please, thank you!” The Baudelaire orphans looked up at the fake fortune-teller, and a strange thing happened. Rather than quaking with fear, or crying out in horror, or huddling together as Lulu shrieked at them, the three children stood resolute, a phrase which here means “did not become frightened at all.” Now that they knew that Madame Lulu used a machine on her ceiling and an archival library under her table to disguise herself as a magical and mysterious person, it was as if every frightening thing about her had melted away, and she was just a woman with an odd accent and a bad temper who had crucial information the Baudelaires needed. As Madame Lulu carried on, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny watched her without a terrified thought in their heads. Madame Lulu yelled and yelled, but the children felt just as angry at Lulu as Lulu was at them. “How dare you, please, enter the tent without permission of Madame Lulu!” Madame Lulu cried. “I am the boss of Caligari Carnival, please, and you must obey me every single moment of your freakish lives! Please, I have never seen, please, the freaks who are so ungrateful to Madame Lulu! You are in the worst of the trouble, please!” By now, Lulu had reached the table, and saw the pile of broken glass which sparkled all over the floor. “You are the breakers of the crystal ball!” she bellowed, pointing a dirty fingernail at the Baudelaires. “You should be ashamed of your freaky selves! The crystal ball is the very valuable thing, please, and is having of the magical powers!” “Fraud!” Sunny cried. “That crystal ball wasn’t magical!” Violet translated angrily. “It was plain glass! And you’re not a real fortune-teller, either! We analyzed your lightning device, and we found your archival library.” “This is all one big disguise,” Klaus said, gesturing around the tent. “You’re the one who should be ashamed of yourself.” “Pie-” Madame Lulu said, but she shut her mouth before she could finish the word. She looked down at the Baudelaires, and her eyes grew very wide. Then she sat down in a chair, lay her head down next to the crystal ball, and began to cry. “I am ashamed of myself,” she said, in an unaccented voice, and reached up to her turban. With a flick of her wrist, she unraveled the turban, and her long, blond hair fell down around her tearstained face. “I am utterly ashamed of myself,” she said, through her tears, and her shoulders shook with sobs. The Baudelaires looked at one another and then at the quaking woman sitting near them. It is hard for decent people to stay angry at someone who has burst into tears, which is why it is often a good idea to burst into tears if a decent person is yelling at you. The three children watched as Madame Lulu cried and cried, pausing only to wipe her eyes with her sleeves, and they could not help but feel a little bit sad, too, even as their anger continued. “Madame Lulu,” Violet said firmly, although not as firmly as she would have liked, “why did you-” “Oh,” Madame Lulu cried, at the sound of her name, “don’t call me that.” She reached up to her neck and yanked on the cord that held the eye around her neck. It broke with a snap! and she dropped it to the ground where it lay amid the pieces of shattered glass while she went on sobbing. “My name is Olivia,” she said finally, with a shuddering sigh. “I’m not Madame Lulu and I’m not a fortune-teller.” “But why are you pretending to be these things?” Klaus asked. “Why are you wearing a disguise? Why are you helping Count Olaf?” “I try to help everyone,” Olivia said sadly. “My motto is ‘give people what they want.’ That’s why I’m here at the carnival. I pretend to be a fortune-teller, and tell people whatever it is they want to hear. If Count Olaf or one of his henchmen steps inside and asks me where the Baudelaires are, I tell them. If Jacques Snicket or another volunteer steps inside and asks me if his brother is alive, I tell them.” The Baudelaires felt so many questions tripping up inside them that they could scarcely decide which one to ask. “But where do you learn the answers?” Violet asked, pointing to the piles of paper underneath the table. “Where does all this information come from?” “Libraries, mostly,” Olivia said, wiping her eyes. “If you want people to think you’re a fortune-teller, you have to answer their questions, and the answer to nearly every question is written down someplace. It just might take a while to find. It’s taken me a long time to gather my archival library, and I still don’t have all of the answers I’ve been looking for. So sometimes, when someone asks me a question and I don’t know the answer, I just make something up.” “When you told Count Olaf that one of our parents was alive,” Klaus asked, “were you making it up, or did you know the answer?” Olivia frowned. “Count Olaf didn’t ask anything about the parents of any carnival frea- wait a minute. Your voices sound different. Beverly , you have a ribbon in your hair, and your other head is wearing glasses. What’s going on?” The three children looked at one another in surprise. They had been so interested in what Olivia was saying that they had completely forgotten about their disguises, but now it appeared that disguises might not be necessary. The siblings needed to have their questions answered honestly, and it seemed more likely that Olivia would give them honest answers if the children were honest themselves. Without speaking, the Baudelaires stood up and removed their disguises. Violet and Klaus unbuttoned the shirt they were sharing, stretching the arms they had been keeping cooped up, and then stepped out of the fur-cuffed pants, while Sunny unwrapped the beard from around her. In no time at all the Baudelaires were standing in the tent in their regular clothing- except for Violet, who was still wearing a hospital gown from her stay in the Surgical Ward-with their disguises on the floor in a heap. The older Baudelaires even shook their heads vigorously, a word which here means “in order to shake talcum powder out of their hair,” and rubbed at their faces so their disguised scars would disappear. “I’m not really Beverly ,” Violet said, “and this is my brother, not my other head. And that’s not Chabo the Wolf Baby. She’s-” “I know who she is,” Olivia said, looking at all of them amazedly. “I know who all of you are. You’re the Baudelaires!” “Yes,” Klaus said, and he and his sisters smiled. It felt as if it had been one hundred years since someone had called the Baudelaires by their proper names, and when Olivia recognized them, it was as if they were finally themselves again, instead of carnival freaks or any other fake identity. “Yes,” Klaus said again. “We’re the Baudelaires-three of them, anyway. We’re not sure, but we think there may be a fourth. We think one of our parents may be alive.” “Not sure?” Olivia asked. “Isn’t the answer in the Snicket file?” “We just have the last page of the Snicket file,” Klaus said, and pulled page thirteen out of his pocket again. “We’re trying to find the rest of it before Olaf does. But the last page says that there may be a survivor of the fire. Do you know if that’s true?” “I have no idea,” Olivia admitted. “I’ve been looking for the Snicket file myself. Every time I see a piece of paper blow by, I chase after it to see if it’s one of the pages.” “But you told Count Olaf that one of our parents is alive,” Violet said, “and that they’re hiding in the Mortmain Mountains .” “I was just guessing,” Olivia said. “If one of your parents has survived, though, that’s probably where they’d be. Somewhere in the Mortmain Mountains is one of the last surviving headquarters of V.F.D. But you know that, of course.” “We don’t know that,” Klaus said. “We don’t even know what V.F.D. stands for.” “Then how did you learn to disguise yourselves?” Olivia asked in astonishment. “You used all three phases of V.F.D. Disguise Training- veiled facial disguises, with your fake scars, various finery disguises, with the clothing you wore, and voice fakery disguises, with the different voices you used. Now that I think of it, you’re even using disguises that look like things in my disguise kit.” Olivia stood up and walked over to the trunk that sat in the corner. Taking a key out of her pocket, she unlocked it and began to go through its contents. The siblings watched as she lifted an assortment of things out of the trunk, all of which the children recognized. First she removed a wig that looked like the one Count Olaf had used when he was pretending to be a woman named Shirley, and then a fake wooden leg he had used as part of his ship captain disguise. She removed a pair of pots that Olaf’s bald associate had used when the children were living in Paltryville, and a motorcycle helmet that looked identical to the one Esme Squalor had used to disguise herself as a police officer. Finally, Olivia held up a shirt with fancy ruffles all over it, exactly like the one that lay at the Baudelaires’ feet. “You see,” she said. “This is the same shirt as the one you two were wearing.” “But we got ours from Count Olaf’s trunk,” Violet said. “That makes sense,” Olivia replied. “All volunteers have the same disguise kit. There are people using these disguises all over the world, trying to bring Count Olaf to justice.” “What?” Sunny asked. “I’m confused, too,” Klaus said. “We’re all confused, Olivia. What is V.F.D.? Sometimes it seems like they’re good people, and sometimes it seems like they’re bad people.” “It’s not as simple as all that,” Olivia said sadly. She took a surgical mask out of the trunk and held it in her hand. “The items in the disguise kit are just things, Baudelaires. You can use these things to help people or to harm them, and many people use them to do both. Sometimes it’s hard to know which disguise to use, or what to do once you’ve put one on.” “I don’t understand,” Violet said. “Some people are like those lions Olaf brought here,” Olivia said. “They start out being good people, but before they know it they’ve become something else. Those lions used to be noble creatures. A friend of mine trained them to smell smoke, which was very helpful in our work. But now Count Olaf is denying them food, and hitting them with his whip, and tomorrow afternoon they’ll probably devour one of the freaks. The world is a harum- scarum place.” “Harum?” Sunny asked. “It’s complicated and confusing,” Olivia explained. “They say that long ago it was simple and quiet, but that might be a legend. There was a schism in V.F.D.-a great big fight between many of the members-and since then it’s been hard for me to know what to do. I never thought I’d be the sort of person who helps villains, but now I do. Haven’t you ever found yourself doing something you never thought you’d do?” “I guess so,” Klaus said, and turned to his sisters. “Remember when we stole those keys from Hal, at the Library of Records? I never thought I’d be a thief.” “Flynn,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “And I never thought I would become a violent person, but I engaged in a sword fight with Dr. Orwell.” “We’ve all done things we never thought we’d do,” Violet said, “but we always had a good reason.” “Everybody thinks they have a good reason,” Olivia said. “Count Olaf thinks getting a fortune is a good reason to slaughter you. Esme Squalor thinks being Olaf’s girlfriend is a good reason to join his troupe. And when I told Count Olaf where to find you, I had a good reason- because my motto is 'give people what they want.’” “Dubious,” Sunny said. “Sunny’s not sure that’s a very good reason,” Violet translated, “and I must say I agree with her. You’ve caused a lot of grief, Olivia, to a lot of people, just so you could give Count Olaf what he wanted.” Olivia nodded, and tears appeared in her eyes once more. “I know it,” she said miserably. “I’m ashamed of myself. But I don’t know what else to do.” “You could stop helping Olaf,” Klaus said, “and help us instead. You could tell us everything you know about V.F.D. And you could take us to the Mortmain Mountains to see if one of our parents is really alive.” “I don’t know,” Olivia said. “I’ve behaved so badly for so long, but maybe I could change.” She stood up straight, and looked sadly around the darkening tent. “I used to be a noble person,” she said. “Do you think I could be noble again?” “I don’t know,” Klaus said, “but let’s find out. We could leave together, right now, and head north.” “But how?” Olivia asked. “We don’t have a car, or a minivan, or four horses, or a large slingshot, or any other way to get out of the hinterlands.” Violet retied the ribbon in her hair, and looked up at the ceiling in thought. “Olivia,” she said finally, “do the carts on that roller coaster still work?” “The carts?” Olivia repeated. “Sort of. The wheels move, but there’s a small engine in each cart, and I think the engines have rusted away.” “I think I could rebuild an engine using your lightning device,” Violet said. “After all, that piece of rubber is a bit like-” “A fan belt!” Olivia finished. “That’s a good idea, Violet.” “I’ll sneak out to the roller coaster tonight,” Violet said, “and get to work. We’ll leave in the morning, before anyone gets up.” “Better not do it tonight,” Olivia said. “Count Olaf or his henchmen are always lurking around at night. It’d be better to leave in the afternoon, when everyone is at the House of Freaks. You can put the invention together first thing in the morning, when Olaf will be in here asking the crystal ball about you.” “What will you do then?” Klaus asked. “I have a spare crystal ball,” Olivia answered. “That isn’t the first one that’s been broken.” “That’s not what I mean,” Klaus said. “I mean, you won’t tell Count Olaf that we’re here at the carnival, will you?” Olivia paused for a moment, and shook her head. “No,” she said, but she did not sound very sure. “Promise?” Sunny asked. Olivia looked down at the youngest Baudelaire for a long time without answering. “Yes,” she finally said, in a very quiet voice. “I promise, if you promise to take me with you to find V.F.D.” “We promise,” Violet said, and her siblings nodded in agreement. “Now, let’s start at the beginning. What does V.F.D. stand for?” “Madame Lulu!” called a scratchy voice from outside the tent. The Baudelaires looked at one another in dismay as Count Olaf called the fake name of the woman beside them. “Madame Lulu! Where are you?” “I am in fortune-telling tent, my Olaf,” Olivia replied, slipping into her accent as easily as the Baudelaires could slip into the ruffled shirt. “But do not come in, please. I am doing secret ritual with crystal ball of mine.” “Well, hurry up,” Olaf said grumpily. “The pit is done, and I’m very thirsty. Come pour us all some wine.” “Just one minute, my Olaf,” Olivia said, reaching down to grab the material for her turban. “Why don’t you be taking of a shower, please? You must be sweaty from the pit digging, and when you are done we will all be having of the wine together.” “Don’t be ridiculous,” Count Olaf replied. “I took a shower ten days ago. I’ll go put on some extra cologne and meet you in your caravan.” “Yes, my Olaf,” Olivia called, and then turned to whisper to the children as she wound the turban around her hair. “We’d better cut short our conversation,” she said. “The others will be looking for you. When we leave here tomorrow, I’ll tell you everything you want to know.” “Couldn’t you just tell us a few things now?” Klaus asked. The Baudelaires had never been closer to the answers they were seeking, and delaying things any further was almost more than they could stand. “No, no,” Olivia decided. “Here, I’d better help you get back into your disguises or you’ll get caught.” The three children looked at one another reluctantly. “I guess you’re right,” Violet said finally. “The others will be looking for us.” “Proffco,” Sunny said, which meant “I guess so, ” and began to wind the beard around her. Violet and Klaus stepped into the fur-cuffed pants, and buttoned the shirt around them, while Olivia tied her necklace back together so she could become Madame Lulu once more. “Our scars,” Klaus remembered, looking at his sister’s face. “We rubbed them off.” “And our hair needs repowdering,” Violet said. “I have a makeup pencil, please,” Olivia said, reaching into the trunk, “and also the powder of talcum.” “You don’t have to use your accent right now,” Violet said, taking the ribbon out of her hair. “Is good to practice, please,” Olivia replied. “I must be thinking of myself as Madame Lulu, otherwise I will please be forgetting of the disguise.” “But you’ll remember our promises, won’t you?” Klaus asked. “Promises?” Madame Lulu repeated. “You promised you wouldn’t tell Count Olaf that we’re here,” Violet said, “and we promised to take you with us to the Mortmain Mountains .” A Series of Unfortunate Events 9 - The Carnivorous Carnival “Of course, Beverly Madame Lulu replied. “I will be keeping of the promise to freaks.” “I’m not Beverly Violet said, “and I’m not a freak.” Madame Lulu smiled, and leaned in to pencil a scar on the eldest Baudelaire’s face. “But it is time for disguises, please,” she said. “Don’t be forgetting of your disguised voices, or you will be recognized.” “We won’t forget our disguises,” Klaus said, putting his glasses back in his pocket, “and you won’t forget your promise, right?” “Of course, please,” Madame Lulu said, leading the children out of the fortune-telling tent. “Do not be of the worrying, please.” The siblings stepped out of the tent with Madame Lulu, and found themselves bathed in the blue light of the famous hinterlands sunset. The light made each of them look a bit different, as if they were wearing another blue disguise on top of their carnival disguises. The powder in Violet’s hair made her head look a pale, strange color, Klaus’s fake scars looked darker and more sinister in the shadows, and Sunny looked like a small blue cloud, with small sparks of light where her teeth reflected the last of the sun. And Madame Lulu looked more like a fortune-teller, as the sunset glistened on the jewel in her turban, and shone on her long robe in an eerie light that looked almost magical. “Good night, my freaky ones,” she said, and the Baudelaires looked at this mysterious woman and wondered if she had really changed her motto, and would become a noble person once more. “I will be keeping of the promise,” Madame Lulu said, but the Baudelaire orphans did not know if she was speaking the truth, or just telling them what they wanted to hear. mushrooms , fresh ginger, coconut milk and water chestnuts that the hunchback had prepared. They were more concerned with digesting information, a phrase which here mean “thinking about everything that Madame Lulu had told them.” Violet took a spoonful of hot broth, but she was thinking so hard about Lulu’s archival library that she scarcely noticed the unusual, sweet taste. Klaus chewed on a water chestnut, but he was wondering so much about the headquarters in the Mortmain Mountains that he didn’t appreciate its appealing, crunchy texture. And Sunny tipped the bowl forward to take a large sip, but she was so curious about the disguise kit that she wasn’t aware that her beard was getting soaked. Each of the three children finished their soup to the last drop, but they were so eager to hear more from Lulu about the mystery of V.F.D. that they felt hungrier than when they sat down. “Everyone sure is quiet tonight,” Colette said, contorting her head underneath her armpit look around the table. “Hugo and Kevin, you haven’t talked much, and I don’t think I’ve heard a single growl from Chabo, or heard a word out of either of your heads.” “I guess we’re not feeling much like making conversation,” Violet said, remembering to speak as low as she could. “We have a lot to think about.” “We sure do,” Hugo said. “I’m still not wild about the idea of being eaten by a lion.” “Me neither,” Colette said, “but today’s visitors were certainly excited about the carnival’s new attraction. Everyone does seem to love violence.” “And sloppy eating,” Hugo said, dabbing at his mouth with a napkin. “It’s certainly an interesting dilemma.” “I don’t think it’s an interesting dilemma,” Klaus said, squinting at his coworkers. “I think its a terrible one. Tomorrow afternoon, someone will jump to their deaths.” He did not add that the Baudelaires planned to be far away from Caligari Carnival by then, heading out to the Mortmain Mountains in the invention Violet planned to construct early tomorrow morning. “I don’t know what we can do about it ” Kevin said. “On one hand, I’d rather keep on performing at the House of Freaks instead of being fed to the lions. But on the other hand — and in my case, both my hands are equally strong — Madame Lulu’s motto is 'give people what they want,’ and apparently they want this carnival to be carnivorous.” “I think it’s a terrible motto,” Violet said, and Sunny growled in agreement. “There are better things to do with your life than doing something humiliating and dangerous, just to make total strangers happy.” “Like what?” Colette asked. The Baudelaires looked at one another. They were afraid to reveal their plan to their coworkers, in case one of them would tell Count Olaf and ruin their escape. But they also couldn’t stand resolute, knowing that something terrible would happen just because Hugo, Colette, and Kevin felt obliged to be freaks and live up to Madame Lulu’s motto. “You never know when you’ll find something else to do,” Violet said finally. “It could happen at any moment.” “Do you really think so?” Hugo asked hopefully. “Yes,” Klaus said. “You never know when opportunity will knock.” Kevin looked up from his soup and gazed at the Baudelaires with a look of hope in his eye. “Which hand will it knock with?” “Opportunity can knock with any hand, Kevin,” Klaus said, and at that moment there was a knock at the door. “Open up, freaks.” The impatient voice, coming from outside the caravan, made the children jump. As I’m sure you know, when Klaus used the expression “opportunity will knock,” he meant that his coworkers might find something better to do with their time, instead of leaping into a pit of hungry lions just to give some people what they wanted. He did not mean that the girlfriend of a notorious villain would actually knock on the door and give them an idea that was possibly even worse, but I am sorry to say that it was Esme Squalor who was knocking, her long fingernails clattering against the door. “Open up. I want to talk to you.” “Just one moment, Ms. Squalor,” Hugo called, and walked over to the door. “Let’s all be on our best behavior,” he said to his coworkers. “It’s not often that a normal person wants to talk to us, and I think we should make the most of this opportunity.” “We’ll be good,” Colette promised. “I won’t bend into a single strange position.” “And I’ll use only my right hand,” Kevin said. “Or maybe only my left hand.” “Good idea,” Hugo said, and opened the door. Esme Squalor was leaning in the doorway with a wicked smile on her face. “I am Esme Gigi Geniveve Squalor,” she said which was often how she announced herself, even when everyone nearby knew who she was. She stepped inside the freaks’ caravan, and the Baudelaires could see that she had dressed for the occasion, a phrase which here means “put on a specific outfit in an attempt to impress them.” She was dressed in a long, white gown, so long that it passed her feet and lay around her as if she were standing in a large puddle of milk. Embroidered on the front of the gown in glittery thread were the words I LOVE FREAKS, except instead of the word “love” there was an enormous heart, a symbol sometimes used by people who have trouble figuring out the difference between words and shapes. On one of the shoulders of the gown, Esme had tied a large brown sack, and on her head she had an odd round hat, with black thread poking out of the top, and it had a large, angry face drawn on the front of it. The children knew that such an outfit must be very in, otherwise Esme would not be wearing it, but they couldn’t imagine who in the world would admire such strange clothing. “What a lovely outfit!” Hugo said. “Thank you,” Esme said. She poked Colette with one of her long fingernails, and the contortionist stood up so Esme could sit down in her chair. “As you can see from the front of my gown, I love freaks.” “You do?” Kevin said. “That’s very nice of you.” “Yes, it is,” Esme agreed. “I had this dress made especially to show how much I love them. Look, there’s a cushion on the shoulder, to resemble a hunchback, and my hat makes me look as if I have two heads, like Beverly and Elliot.” “You certainly look very freakish,” Colette said. Esme frowned, as if this wasn’t quite what she wanted to hear. “Of course, I’m not really a freak,” she said. “I’m a normal person, but I wanted to show you all how much I admire you. Now, please bring me a carton of buttermilk. It’s very in.” “We don’t have any,” Hugo said, “but I think we have some cranberry juice, or I could make you some hot chocolate. Chabo here taught me to add cinnamon to the hot chocolate, and it tastes quite delicious.” “Tom ka gai!” Sunny said. “And we also have soup,” Hugo said. Esme looked down at Sunny and frowned. “No, thank you,” she said, “although it’s very kind of you to offer. In fact, you freaks are so kind that I consider you to be more than employees at a carnival I happen to be visiting. I consider you to be some of my closest friends.” The children knew, of course, that this ridiculous statement was as fake as Esme‘s second head, but their coworkers were thrilled. Hugo gave Esme a big smile, and stood up straight so that you could barely see his hunchback. Kevin blushed and looked down at his hands. And Colette was so excited that before she could stop herself, she twisted her body until it resembled the letter K and the letter S at the same time. “Oh, Esme,” Colette said. “Do you really mean it?” “Of course I mean it,” Esme said, pointing to the front of her gown. “I would rather be here with you than with the finest people in the world.” “Gosh,” Kevin said. “No normal person has ever called me a friend.” “Well, that’s what you are,” Esme said, and leaned toward Kevin to kiss him on the nose. “You’re all my freaky friends. And it makes me very sad to think that one of you will be eaten by lions tomorrow.” The Baudelaires watched as she reached into a pocket in the gown and drew out a white handkerchief, embroidered with the same slogan as her gown, and held up the word “freaks” to dab at her eyes. “I have real tears in my eyes from thinking about it,” she explained. “There, there, close friend,” Kevin said, and patted one of her hands. “Don’t be sad.” “I can’t help it,” Esme said, yanking back her own hand as if she were afraid that being ambidextrous was contagious. “But I have an opportunity for you that might make all of us very, very happy.” “An opportunity?” Hugo asked. “Why, Beverly and Elliot were just telling us that an opportunity could come along at any minute.” “And they were right,” Esme said. “Tonight I am offering you the opportunity to quit your jobs at the House of Freaks, and join Count Olaf and myself in his troupe.” “What would we do exactly?” Hugo asked. Esme smiled, and began to accentuate the positive aspects of working with Count Olaf, a phrase which here means “make the opportunity sound better than it really was, by emphasizing the good parts and scarcely mentioning the bad.” “It’s a theatrical troupe,” she said, “so you’d be wearing costumes and doing dramatic exercises, and occasionally committing crimes.” “Dramatic exercises!” Kevin exclaimed, clasping both hands to his heart. “It’s always been my heart’s desire to perform on a stage!” “And I’ve always wanted to wear a costume!” Hugo said. “But you do perform on a stage,” Violet said “and you wear an ill-fitting costume every day at the House of Freaks.” “If you joined, you’d get to travel with us to exciting places,” Esme continued, glaring at Violet. “Members of Count Olaf’s troupe have seen the trees of Finite Forest, and the shores of Lake Lachrymose, and the crows of the Village of Fowl Devotees, although they always have to sit in the back seat. And, best of all, you’d get to work for Count Olaf, one of the most brilliant and handsome men who ever walked the face of the earth.” “Do you really think that a normal man like him would want to work with freaks like us?’ Colette asked. “Of course he would,” Esme said. “Count Olaf doesn’t care whether you have something wrong with you or if you’re normal, as long as you’re willing to carry out his orders. I think you’ll find that working in Olaf’s troupe is a job where people won’t think you’re freakish at all. And you’ll be paid a fortune — at least, Count Olaf will be.” “Wow!” Hugo said. “What an opportunity!” “I had a hunch you’d be excited about it,” Esme said. “No offense, Hugo. Now, if you’re interested in joining, there’s just one thing you need to do.” “A job interview?” Colette asked nervously. “There’s no need for close friends of mine to do anything as unpleasant as a job interview,” Esme said. “You just have to do one simple task. Tomorrow afternoon, during the show with the lions, Count Olaf will announce which freak will jump into the pit of lions. But I want whomever is chosen to throw Madame Lulu in instead.” The freaks’ caravan was silent for a moment as everyone digested this information. “You mean,” Hugo said finally, “that you want us to murder Madame Lulu?” “Don’t think of it as murder,” Esme said. “Think of it as a dramatic exercise. It’s a special surprise for Count Olaf that will prove to him that you’re brave enough to join his troupe.” “Throwing Lulu into a pit of lions doesn’t strike me as particularly brave,” Colette said. “Just cruel and vicious.” “How can it be cruel and vicious to give people what they want?” Esme asked. “You want to join Count Olaf’s troupe, the crowd wants to see someone eaten by lions, and I want Madame Lulu thrown into the pit. Tomorrow, one of you will have the exciting opportunity to give everybody exactly what they want.” “Grr,” Sunny growled, but only her siblings understood that she really meant “Everybody except Lulu.” “When you put it like that,” Hugo said thoughtfully, “it doesn’t sound so bad.” “Of course it doesn’t,” Esme said, adjusting her false head. “Besides, Madame Lulu was eager to see all of you eaten by lions, so you should be happy to throw her in the pit.” “But why do you want Madame Lulu thrown in?” Colette asked. Esme scowled. “Count Olaf thinks we have to make this carnival popular, so that Madame Lulu will help us with her crystal ball,” she said, “but I don’t think we need her help. Besides, I’m tired of my boyfriend buying her presents.” “That doesn’t seem like such a good reason for someone to be eaten by lions,” Violet said carefully, in her disguised voice. “I’m not surprised that a two-headed person like yourself is a little confused,” Esme said, and reached out her long-nailed hands to pat both Violet and Klaus on their scarred faces. “Once you join Olaf’s troupe, you won’t be troubled by that kind of freakish thinking any longer.” “Just think,” Hugo said, “tomorrow we’ll stop being freaks, and we’ll be henchmen of Count Olaf.” “I prefer the term henchpeople,” Colette said. Esme gave everyone in the room a big smile and then reached up to her shoulder and opened the brown sack. “To celebrate your new jobs ” she said, “I brought each of you a present.” “Apresent!” Kevin cried. “Madame Lulu never gave us presents.” “This is for you, Hugo,” Esme said, and took out an oversized coat the Baudelaires recognized from a time when the hook-handed man had disguised himself as a doorman. The coat was so big that it had covered his hooks, and as Hugo tried it on, they saw that it was also big enough to fit Hugo, even with his irregular shape. Hugo looked at himself in the mirror and then at his coworkers in joy. “It covers my hunchback!” he said happily. “I look normal, instead of freakish!” “You see?” Esme said. “Count Olaf is already making your life much better. And look what I have for you, Colette.” The Baudelaires watched as Olaf’s girlfriend reached into the sack and pulled out the long, black robe that they had seen in the trunk of the automobile. “It’s so baggy,” Esme explained, “that you can twist your body any which way, and no one will notice that you’re a contortionist.” “It’s like a dream come true!” Colette said, grabbing it out of Esme's hands. “I’d throw a hundred people into the lion pit to wear something like this.” “And Kevin,” Esme said, “look at this small piece of rope. Turn around, and I’ll tie your right hand behind your back so you can’t possibly use it.” “And then I’ll be left-handed, like normal people!” Kevin said, jumping out of his chair and standing on his two equally strong feet. “Hooray!” The ambidextrous person turned around happily so Esme could tie his right hand behind his back, and in a moment he became someone with only one useful arm instead of two. “I haven’t forgotten you two,” Esme continued, smiling at the three of them. “Chabo here’s a long razor that Count Olaf uses when he needs to disguise himself with a good shave I thought you could use it to trim some of that ugly wolf hair. And for you, Beverly and Elliot I have this.” Esme removed the sack from her gown and held it out to the older Baudelaires triumphantly. Violet and Klaus peeked inside and saw that it was empty. “This sack is perfect to cover up one of your heads,” she explained. “You’ll look like a normal one headed person who just happens to have a sack balanced on their shoulder. Isn’t that smashing ?” “I guess so,” Klaus said, in his fake high voice. “What’s the matter with you?” Hugo demanded. “You’ve been offered an exciting job and given a generous present, and yet both your heads are moping around.” “You, too, Chabo,” Colette said. “I can see through your fur that you don’t look very enthusiastic.” “I think this might be an opportunity that we should refuse,” Violet said, and her siblings nodded in agreement. “What?” Esme said sharply. “It’s nothing personal,” Klaus added quickly, although not wanting to work for Count Olaf was about as personal as things could get. “It does seem very exciting to work in a theatrical troupe, and Count Olaf does seem like a terrific person.” “Then what’s the problem?” Kevin asked. “Well,” Violet said, “I don’t think I’m comfortable throwing Madame Lulu to the lions.” “As her other head, I agree,” Klaus said, “and Chabo agrees, too.” “I bet she only half agrees,” Hugo said. “I bet her wolf half can’t wait to watch her get eaten.” Sunny shook her head and growled as gently as she could, and Violet lifted her up and placed her on the table. “It just doesn’t seem right,” Violet said. “Madame Lulu isn’t the nicest person I know, but I’m not sure she deserves to be devoured.” Esme gave the older Baudelaires a large false smile, and leaned forward to pat them each on the head again. “Don’t worry your heads over whether or not she deserves to be devoured,” she said, and then smiled down at Chabo. “You don’t deserve to be half wolf, do you?” she asked. “People don’t always get what they deserve in this world.” “It still seems like a wicked thing to do,” Klaus said. “I don’t think so,” Hugo said. “It’s giving people what they want, just like Lulu says.” “Why don’t you sleep on it?” Esme suggested, and stood up from the table. “Right after tomorrow’s show, Count Olaf is heading north to the Mortmain Mountains to take care of something important, and if Madame Lulu is eaten by then, you’ll be allowed to join him. You can decide in the morning whether you want to be brave members of a theater troupe, or cowardly freaks in a rundown carnival.” “I don’t need to sleep on it,” Kevin said. “Me neither,” Colette said. “I can decide right now.” “Yes,” Hugo agreed. “I want to join Count Olaf.” “I’m glad to hear that,” Esme said. “Maybe you can convince your coworkers to join you in joining me joining him.” She looked scornfully at the three children as she opened the door to the caravan. The hinterlands sunset was long over, and there was not a trace of blue light falling on the carnival. “Think about this, Beverly and Elliot, and Chabo, too,” she said. “It just might be a wicked thing, throwing Madame Lulu into a pit full of carnivorous lions.” Esme took a step outside, and it was so dark that Olaf’s girlfriend looked like a ghost in a long, white gown and a fake extra head. “But if you don’t join us, where can you possibly go?” she asked. The Baudelaire orphans had no answer for Esme Squalor’s terrible question, but Esme answered it herself, with a long, wicked laugh. “If you don’t choose the wicked thing what in the world will you do?” she asked, and disappeared into the night. CHAPTER Nine The curious thing about being told to sleep on it — a phrase which here means, as I’m sure you know, “to go to bed thinking about something and reach a conclusion in the morning” — is that you usually can’t. If you are thinking over a dilemma, you are likely to toss and turn all night long, thinking over terrible things that can happen and trying to imagine what in the world you can do about it, and these circumstances are unlikely to result in any sleeping at all. Just last night, I was troubled by a decision involving an eyedropper, a greedy night watchman, and a tray of individual custards, and this morning I am so tired that I can scarcely type these words. And so it was with the Baudelaire orphans that night, after Esme Squalor had told them to sleep on it, and decide the next morning whether or not to throw Madame Lulu to the lions and join Count Olaf’s troupe. The children, of course, had no intention of becoming part of a band of villains, or tossing anyone into a deadly pit. But Esme had also asked them what in the world they would do if they decided not to join Olaf, and this was the question that kept them tossing and turning in their hammocks, which are particularly uncomfortable places to toss and turn. The Baudelaires hoped that instead of joining Count Olaf, they would travel through the hinterlands in a motorized roller-coaster cart of Violet’s invention, accompanied by Madame Lulu, in her undisguised identity of Olivia, along with the archival library from underneath the table of the fortune-telling tent, in the hopes of finding one of the Baudelaire parents alive and well at the V.F.D. headquarters in the Mortmain Mountains. But this plan seemed so complicated that the children worried over all that could go wrong and spoil the whole thing. Violet thought about the lightning device that she planned to turn into a fan belt, and worried that there wouldn’t be sufficient torque to make the carts move the way they needed to. Klaus worried that the archival library wouldn’t contain specific directions to the headquarters, and they would get lost in the mountains, which were rumored to be enormous, confusing, and filled with wild animals. Sunny worried that they might not find enough to eat in the hinterlands. And all three Baudelaires worried that Madame Lulu would not keep her promise, and would reveal the orphans’ disguise when Count Olaf asked about them the next morning. The siblings worried about these things all night, and although in my case the dessert chef managed to find my hotel room and knock on my window just before dawn, the Baudelaire orphans found that when morning came and they were done sleeping on it, they hadn’t reached any other conclusion but that their plan was risky, and the only one they could think of. As the first rays of the sun shone through the window onto the potted plants, the Baudelaires quietly lowered themselves out of their hammocks. Hugo, Colette, and Kevin had announced that they were ready to join Count Olaf’s troupe and didn’t need to sleep on it, and as so often happens with people who have nothing to sleep on, the children’s coworkers were sleeping soundly and did not awaken as the siblings left the caravan to get to work on their plan. Count Olaf and his troupe had dug the lions’ pit alongside the ruined roller coaster, so close that the children had to walk along its edge to reach the ivy-covered carts. The pit was not very deep, although its walls were just high enough that nobody could climb out if they were thrown inside, and it was not very large, so all the lions were as crowded together as they had been in the trailer. Like the Baudelaires’ coworkers, the lions must not have had much to sleep on, and they were still dozing in the morning sun. Sound asleep, the lions did not look particularly ferocious. Some of their manes were all tangled, as if no one had brushed them for a long time, and sometimes one of their legs twitched, as if they were dreaming of better days. On their backs and bellies were several nasty scars from the whippings Count Olaf had given them, which made the Baudelaires sore just looking at them, and most of the lions were very, very thin, as if they had not eaten a good meal in quite some time. “I feel sorry for them,” Violet said, looking at one lion who was so skinny that all of its ribs were visible. “If Madame Lulu was right, these lions were once noble creatures, and now look how miserably Count Olaf has treated them.” “They look lonely,” Klaus said, squinting down into the pit with a sad frown. “Maybe they’re orphans, too.” “But maybe they have a surviving parent,” Violet said, “somewhere in the Mortmain Mountains .” “Edasurc,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “Maybe someday we can rescue these lions.” “For now, let’s rescue ourselves,” Violet said with a sigh. “Klaus, let’s see if we can untangle the ivy from this cart in front. We’ll probably need two carts, one for passengers and one for the archival library, so Sunny, see if you can get the ivy off that other one.” “Easy,” said Sunny, pointing to her teeth. “All the caravans are on wheels,” Klaus said. “Would it be easier to hitch up one of the caravans to the lightning device?” “A caravan is too big,” Violet replied. “If you wanted to move a caravan, you’d have to attach it to an automobile, or several horses. We’ll be lucky if I can rebuild the carts’ engines. Madame Lulu said that they were rusted away.” “It seems like we’re hitching our hopes to a risky plan,” Klaus said, tearing away at a few strands of ivy with the one arm he could use. “But I suppose it’s no more risky than plenty of other things we’ve done, like stealing a sailboat.” “Or climbing up an elevator shaft,” Violet said. “Whaque,” Sunny said, with her mouth full of plants, and her siblings knew she meant something along the lines of, “Or pretending to be surgeons.” “Actually,” Violet said, “maybe this plan isn’t so risky after all. Look at the axles on this cart.” “Axles?” Klaus asked. “The rods that hold the wheels in place,” she explained, pointing to the bottom of the cart. “They’re in perfect condition. That’s good news, because we need these wheels to carry us a long way.” The eldest Baudelaire looked up from her work and gazed out at the horizon. To the east, the sun was rising, and soon its rays would reflect off the mirrors positioned in the fortune-telling tent, but to the north, she could see the Mortmain Mountains rising up in odd square shapes, more like a staircase than a mountain range, with patches of snow on the higher places, and the top steps covered in a thick, gray fog. “It’ll take a long time to get up there,” she said, “and it doesn’t look like there are a lot of repair shops on the way.” “I wonder what we’ll find up there,” Klaus said. “I’ve never been to the headquarters of something.” “Neither have I,” Violet said. “Here, Klaus, lean down with me so I can look at the engine of this cart.” “If we knew more about V.F.D.,” Klaus said, “we might know what to expect. How does the engine look?” “Not too bad,” Violet said. “Some of these pistons are completely rusted away, but I think I can replace them with these latches on the sides of the cart, and the lightning device will provide a fan belt. But we’ll need something else — something like twine, or wire, to help connect the two carts.” “Ivy?” Sunny asked. “Good idea, Sunny,” Violet said. “The stems of the ivy feel solid enough. If you’ll pluck the leaves off a few strands, you’d be a big help.” “What can I do?” Klaus asked. “Help me turn the cart over,” Violet said, “but watch where you put your feet. We don’t want you falling into the pit.” “I don’t want anyone falling into the pit,” Klaus said. “You don’t think the others will throw Madame Lulu to the lions, do you?” “Not if we get this done in time,” Violet said grimly. “See if you can help me bend the latch so it fits into that notch, Klaus. No, no — the other way. I just hope Esme doesn’t have them throw somebody else in when we all escape.” “She probably will,” Klaus said, struggling with the latch. “I can’t understand why Hugo, Colette, and Kevin want to join up with people who do such things.” “I guess they’re just happy that anybody’s treating them like normal people,” Violet said, and glanced into the pit. One of the lions yawned, stretched its paws, and opened one sleepy eye, but seemed uninterested in the three children working nearby. “Maybe that’s why the hook-handed man works for Count Olaf , or the bald man with the long nose. Maybe when they tried to work someplace else, everyone laughed at them.” “Or maybe they just like committing crimes,” Klaus said. “That’s a possibility, too,” Violet said, and then frowned at the bottom of the cart. “I wish I had Mother’s tool kit,” she said. “She had this tiny wrench I always admired, and it would be just perfect for this job.” “She’d probably be a better help than I am,” Klaus said. “I can’t make head or tail of what you’re doing.” “You’re doing fine,” Violet said, “particularly if you consider that we’re sharing a shirt. How are those ivy stems coming, Sunny?” “Lesoint,” Sunny replied, which meant “I’m nearly done.” “Good work,” Violet said, peering at the sun. “I’m not sure how much time we have. Count Olaf is probably inside the fortune-telling tent by now, asking the crystal ball about our whereabouts. I hope Madame Lulu keeps her promise, and doesn’t give him what he wants. Will you hand me that piece of metal on the ground, Klaus? It looks like it used to be part of the tracks, but I’m going to use it to make a steering device.” “I wish Madame Lulu could give us what we want,” Klaus said, handing the piece to his sister. “I wish we could find out if one of our parents survived the fire, without wandering around a mountain range.” “Me, too,” Violet said, “and even then we might not find them. They could be down here looking for us.” “Remember the train station?” Klaus said and Violet nodded. “Esoobac,” Sunny asked, handing over the ivy stems. By “Esoobac,” she meant something like, “I don’t remember,” although there was no way she could have, as the youngest Baudelaire hadn’t been born at the time her siblings were remembering. The Baudelaire family had decided to go away for the weekend to a vineyard, a word which here means “a sort of farm where people grow grapes used in wine.” This vineyard was famous for having grapes that smelled delicious, and it was very pleasant to picnic in the fields, while the fragrance drifted in the air and the vineyard’s famous donkeys, who helped carry bushels of grapes at harvesttime, slept in the shade of the grapevines. To reach the vineyard, the Baudelaires had to take not one train but two, transferring at a busy station not far from Paltryville, and on the day that Violet and Klaus were remembering, the children had been separated from their parents in the rush of the transferring crowd. Violet and Klaus, who were quite young, decided to search for their parents in the row of shops just outside the station, and soon the local shoemaker, blacksmith, chimney sweep, and computer technician were all helping the two frightened children look for their mother and father. Soon enough the Baudelaire family was reunited, but the children’s father had taught them a serious lesson. “If you lose us,” he said, “stay put.” “Yes,” their mother agreed. “Don’t go wandering around looking for us. We’ll come and find you.’” At the time, Violet and Klaus had solemnly agreed, but times had changed. When the Baudelaire parents had said “If you lose us,” they were referring to times when the children might lose sight of them in a crowd, as they had at the train station that day, where I had lunch just a few weeks ago and talked to the shoemaker’s son about what had happened. They were not referring to the way the Baudelaires had lost them now, in a deadly fire that it seemed had claimed at least one of their lives. There are times to stay put and what you want will come to you, and there are times to go out into the world and find such a thing for yourself. Like the Baudelaire orphans, I have found myself in places where staying put would be dangerously foolish, and foolishly dangerous. I have stood in a department store, and seen something written on a price tag that told me I had to leave at once, but in different clothing. I have sat in an airport, and heard something over the loudspeaker that told me I had to leave later that day, but on a different flight. And I have stood alongside the roller coaster at Caligari Carnival, and known what the Baudelaires could not possibly have known that quiet morning. I have looked at the carts, all melted together and covered in ash, and I have gazed into the pit dug by Count Olaf and his henchmen and seen all the burnt bones lying in a heap, and I have picked through the bits of mirror and crystal where the fortune-telling tent once stood, and all this research has told me the same thing, and if somehow I could slip back in time, as easily as I could slip out of the disguise I am in now, I would walk to the edge of that pit and tell the Baudelaire orphans the results of my findings. But of course I cannot. I can only fulfill my sacred duty and type this story as best I can, down to the last word. “Worf,” Sunny said, when the Baudelaires had finished telling her about the train station. By “worf,” she meant something along the lines of, “I don’t think we should stay put. I think we should leave right now.” “We can’t leave yet,” Violet said. “The steering device is ready, and the carts are firmly attached to one another, but without a fan belt, the engine won’t work. We’d better go to the fortune-telling tent and dismantle the lightning-device.” “Olaf?” Sunny asked. “Let’s hope that Madame Lulu has sent him on his way,” Violet said, “otherwise we’ll be cutting it close. We have to finish our invention before the show begins, otherwise everyone will see us get in the carts and leave.” There was a faint growl from the pit, and the children saw that most of the lions were awake and looking around crankily at their surroundings. Some of them were trying to pace around their cramped quarters, but they only managed to get in the way of other lions, which only made them crankier. “Those lions look hungry,” Klaus said. “I wonder if it’s almost show time.” “Aklec,” Sunny said, which meant “Let’s move out,” and the Baudelaires moved out, walking away from the roller coaster and toward the fortune-telling tent. As the children walked through the carnival, they saw that quite a few visitors had already arrived, and some of them giggled at the siblings as they made their way. “Look!” one man said, pointing at the Baudelaires with a sneer. “Freaks! Let’s be sure to go to the lion show later — one of them might get eaten.” “Oh, I hope so,” said his companion. “I didn’t come all the way out here to the hinterlands for nothing.” “The woman at the ticket booth told me that a journalist from The Daily Punctilio is here to report on who gets devoured,” said another man, who was wearing a CALIGARI CARNIVAL T-shirt he had apparently purchased at the gift caravan. “The Daily Punctilio!” cried the woman who was with him. “How exciting! I’ve been reading about those Baudelaire murderers for weeks. I just love violence!” “Who doesn’t?” the man replied. “Especially when it’s combined with sloppy eating.” Just as the Baudelaires reached the fortune-telling tent, a man stepped in front of them and blocked their way. The children looked up at the pimples on his chin and recognized him as the very rude member of the audience at the House of Freaks. “Why, look who’s here,” he said. “It’s Chabo the Wolf Baby, and Beverly and Elliot, the two-headed freak.” “It’s very nice to see you again,” Violet said quickly. She tried to walk around him, but he grabbed the shirt she was sharing with her brother, and she had to stop so he wouldn’t tear the shirt and reveal their disguise. “What about your other head?” the pimpled man asked sarcastically. “Doesn’t he think it’s nice to see me?” “Of course,” Klaus said, “but we’re in a bit of a hurry, so if you’ll excuse us ...” “I don’t excuse freaks,” the man said. “There’s no excuse for them. Why don’t you wear a sack over one of your heads, so you look normal?” “Grr!” Sunny said, baring her teeth at the man’s knees. “Please leave us alone, sir,” Violet said “Chabo is very protective of us, and might bite you if you get too close.” “I bet Chabo’s no match for a bunch of ferocious lions,” the man said. “I can’t wait until the show, and neither can my mother.” “That’s right, dear,” said a woman who was standing nearby. She stepped forward to give the pimpled man a big kiss, and the Baudelaires noticed that pimples seemed to run in the family. “What time does the show start, freaks?” “The show starts right now!” The pimpled man and his mother turned around to see who had spoken, but the Baudelaires did not have to look to know it was Count Olaf who had made the announcement. The villain was standing at the entrance to the fortune-telling tent with a whip in his hand and a particularly nasty gleam in his eye, both of which the siblings recognized. The whip, of course, was the one that Count Olaf used to encourage the lions to become ferocious, which the Baudelaires had seen the previous day, and the gleam was something they had seen more times than they could count. It was the sort of gleam someone might get in their eye when they were telling a joke, but when Olaf looked at people that way it usually meant that one of his schemes was succeeding brilliantly. “The show starts right now!” he announced again to the people gathering around him. “I’ve just had my fortune told, so I’ve gotten what I wanted.” Count Olaf pointed at the fortune-telling tent with his whip, and then turned around to point at the disguised Baudelaires as he grinned at the crowd. “Now, ladies and gentlemen, it’s time to go to the lion pit so we can give the rest of you what you want.” attraction must have spread far beyond the hinterlands, because there were many more visitors than yesterday, and there seemed to be more and more arriving every minute. “I’ll lead the way to the pit,” announced Count Olaf. “After all, the lion show was my idea, so I should get to walk in front.” “It was your idea?” asked a woman the children recognized from their stay at Heimlich Hospital. She was wearing a gray suit, and chewing gum as she spoke into a microphone, and the siblings remembered that she was a reporter from The Daily Punctilio. “I’d love to write about it in the newspaper. What is your name?” “Count Olaf!” Count Olaf said proudly. “I can see the headline now: ‘COUNT OLAF THINKS UP IDEA FOR LION SHOW,’” said the reporter. “Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio see that!” “Wait a minute,” someone said. “I thought Count Olaf was murdered by those three children.” “That was Count Omar,” replied the reporter. “I should know. Tve been writing about the Baudelaires for The Daily Punctilio. Count Omar was murdered by those three Baudelaire children, who still remain at large.” “Well, if anyone ever finds them,” someone in the crowd said, “weTl throw them into the lion pit.” “An excellent idea,” Count Olaf replied, “but in the meantime, the lions will have a meal of one delicious freak. Follow me, everyone, for an afternoon of violence and sloppy eating!” “Hooray!” cried several members of the crowd, as Olaf took a bow and began to lead everyone in the direction of the ruined roller coaster where the lions were waiting. “Come with me, freaks,” Count Olaf ordered, pointing at the Baudelaires. “My assistants are bringing the others. We want all you freaks assembled for the choosing ceremony.” “I will bring them, my Olaf,” Madame Lulu said in her disguised accent, emerging from the fortune-telling tent. When she saw the Baudelaires, her eyes widened, and she quickly held her hands behind her back. “You lead crowd to pit, please, and give interview to newspaper on way.” “Oh, yes,” said the reporter. “I can see the headline now: ‘EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH COUNT OLAF, WHO IS NOT COUNT OMAR, WHO IS DEAD? Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio see that!” “It will be exciting for people to read about me,” Count Olaf said. “All right, Til walk with the reporter, Lulu. But hurry up with the freaks.” “Yes, my Olaf,” Madame Lulu said. “Come with me, freaky peoples, please.” Lulu held out her hands for the Baudelaires to take, as if she were their mother walking them across the street, instead of a fake fortune-teller leading them to a pit of lions. The children could see that one of Madame Lulu’s palms had an odd streak of dirt on it, while the other hand was closed in an odd, tight fist. The children did not want to take those hands and walk toward the lion show, but there were so many people gathered around, eagerly expecting violence, that it seemed they had no other choice. Sunny grabbed ahold of Lulu’s right hand, and Violet grabbed Lulu’s left, and they walked together in an awkward knot in the direction of the ruined roller coaster. “Olivi — ” Klaus started to say, but then looked around the crowd and realized it would be foolish to use her real name. “I mean, Madame Lulu,” he corrected himself, and then leaned across Violet to speak as quietly as he could. “Let’s walk as slowly as we can. Maybe we can find an opportunity to sneak back to the tent and dismantle the lightning device.” Madame Lulu did not answer, but merely shook her head slightly to indicate that it was not a good time to speak of such matters. “Fan belt,” Sunny reminded her, as quietly as she could, but Madame Lulu just shook her head. “You kept your promise, didn’t you?” Klaus murmured, scarcely above a whisper, but Madame Lulu stared ahead as if she had not heard. He nudged his older sister inside their shared shirt. “Violet,” he said, scarcely daring to use her real name. “Ask Madame Lulu to walk more slowly.” Violet glanced briefly at Klaus, and then turned her head to catch Sunny’s eye. The younger Baudelaires looked back at their sister and watched her shake her head slightly, just as Madame Lulu had, and then look down, where she was holding the fortuneteller’s hand. Between two of Violet’s fingers, Klaus and Sunny could see the tip of a small piece of rubber, which they recognized immediately. It was the part of Madame Lulu’s lightning device that resembled a fan belt — the very thing Violet needed to turn the carts of the roller coaster into an invention that could carry the Baudelaires out of the hinterlands and up into the Mortmain Mountains. But instead of feeling hopeful as they looked at this crucial item in Violet’s hand, all three Baudelaires felt something quite a bit less pleasant. If you have ever experienced something that feels strangely familiar, as if the exact same thing has happened to you before, then you are experiencing what the French call “deja vu.” Like most French expressions — “ennui,” which is a fancy term for severe boredom, or “la petite mort,” which describes a feeling that part of you has died — “deja vu” refers to something that is usually not very pleasant, and it was not pleasant for the Baudelaire orphans to arrive at the lion pit and experience the queasy feeling of deja vu. When the children had been staying at Heimlich Hospital, they had found themselves in an operating theater, surrounded by a large crowd that was very eager to see something violent occur, such as an operation performed on someone. When the children were living in the town of V.F.D., they had found themselves in a field, surrounded by a large crowd eager to see something violent occur, such as the burning of someone at the stake. And now, as Madame Lulu let go of their hands, the children looked at the enormous and strangely familiar crowd towering over them at the ruined roller coaster. Once again, there were people eager for something violent to happen. Once again, the Baudelaires were afraid for their lives. And once again, it was all because of Count Olaf. The siblings looked past the cheering crowd at the two rollercoaster carts that Violet had adapted. All the invention needed was the fan belt, and the children could continue their search for one of the Baudelaire parents, but as Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked across the pit at the two small carts joined with ivy and altered to travel across the hinterlands, they felt the queasiness of deja vu and wondered if there was another unhappy ending in store for them. “Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the most exciting afternoon of your entire lives!’ Count Olaf announced, and cracked his whip into the pit. The whip was just long enough to strike the restless lions, who roared obediently and gnashed their teeth in hunger. ’’These carnivorous lions are ready to eat a freak,“ he said. ’’But which freak will it be?” The crowd parted, and the hook-handed man emerged, leading the Baudelaires’ coworkers in a line toward the edge of the pit where the Baudelaires stood. Hugo, Colette, and Kevin had evidently been told to dress in their freakish clothes rather than in the gifts Esme had given them, and they gave the Baudelaires a small smile and stared nervously at the snarling lions. Once the children’s coworkers had taken their places, Count Olaf’s other comrades emerged from the crowd. Esme Squalor was wearing a pinstripe suit and carrying a parasol, which is a small umbrella used for keeping the sun out of one’s eyes, and she smiled at the crowd and sat down on a small chair brought by Olaf’s bald associate, who was also holding a long, flat piece of wood that he placed at the edge of the pit so it hung over the lions like a diving board over a swimming pool. Finally, the two white-faced women stepped forward, holding a small wooden box with a hole in the top. “I’m so glad this is my last day in these clothes,” Hugo murmured to the Baudelaires, gesturing to his ill-fitting coat. “Just think — soon I’ll be a member of Count Olaf’s troupe, and I’ll never have to look like a freak again.” “Unless you’re thrown to the lions,” Klaus couldn’t help replying. “Are you kidding?” Hugo whispered back. “If I’m the one chosen, I’m going to throw Madame Lulu into the pit, just like Esme said.” “Look closely at all these freaks,” Count Olaf said, as several people in the audience tittered. “Observe Hugo’s funny back. Think about how silly it is that Colette can bend herself into all sorts of strange positions. Giggle at the absurdity of Kevin’s ambidextrous arms and legs. Snicker at Beverly and Elliot, the two-headed freak. And laugh so hard that you can scarcely breathe at Chabo the Wolf Baby.” The crowd erupted into laughter, pointing and laughing at the people they thought were funniest. “Look at Chabo’s ridiculous teeth!” cried a woman who had dyed her hair several colors at once. “She looks positively idiotic!” A Series of Unfortunate Events 9 - The Carnivorous Carnival “I think Kevin is funnier!” replied her husband, who had dyed his hair to match. “I hope he’s thrown into the pit. It’ll be fun to see him try to defend himself with both hands and feet.” “I hope it’s the hook-handed freak!” said a woman standing in back of the Baudelaires. “That will make it even more violent!” “I’m not a freak,” the hook-handed man snarled impatiently. “I’m an employee of Count Olaf’s.” “Oh, sorry,” the woman replied. “In that case, I hope it’s that man with pimples all over his chin.” “I’m a member of the audience!” the man cried. “I’m not a freak. I just have a few skin problems.” “Then what about that woman in that silly suit?” she asked. “Or that guy with only one eyebrow?” “I’m Count Olaf’s girlfriend,” Esme said, “and my suit is in, not silly.” “I don’t care who’s a freak and who isn’t,” said someone else in the crowd. “I just want to see the lions eat somebody.” “You will,” Count Olaf promised. “We’re going to have the choosing ceremony right now. The names of all the freaks have been written down on small scraps of paper and placed in the box that these two lovely ladies are holding.” The two white-faced women held up the wooden box and curtsied to the audience, while Esme frowned at them. “I don’t think they’re particularly lovely,” she said, but few people heard her over the cheering of the crowd. “I’m going to reach inside the box,” Count Olaf said, “draw out one piece of paper, and read the name of the freak out loud. Then that freak will walk down that wooden plank and jump into the pit, and we’ll all watch as the lions eat him.” “Or her,” Esme said. She looked over at Madame Lulu, and then at the Baudelaires and their coworkers. Putting down her parasol for a moment, she raised both of her longnailed hands and made a small, pushing motion to remind them of her scheme. “Or her,” Count Olaf said, looking curiously at Esme‘s gesture. “Now, are there any questions before we begin?” “Why do you get to choose the name?” asked the pimpled man. “Because this whole thing was my idea,” Count Olaf said. “I have a question,” asked the woman with dyed hair. “Is this legal?” “Oh, stop spoiling the fun,” her husband said. “You wanted to come and watch people get eaten by lions, and so I brought you. If you’re going to ask a bunch of complicated questions you can go wait in the car.” “Please continue, Your Countship,” said the reporter from The Daily Punctilio. “I will,” Count Olaf said, and whipped the lions one more time before reaching into the wooden box. Giving the children and their coworkers a cruel smile, he moved his hand around inside the box for quite some time before at last drawing out a small piece of paper that had been folded many times. The crowd leaned forward to watch, and the Baudelaires strained to see over the heads of the adults around them. But Count Olaf did not unfold the piece of paper immediately. Instead he held it up as high as he could and gave the audience a large smile. “I’m going to open the piece of paper very slowly,” he announced, “to increase the suspense.” “How clever!” the reporter said, snapping her gum in excitement. “I can see the headline now: ‘COUNT OLAF INCREASES SUSPENSE.’” “I learned how to amaze crowds by working extensively as a famous actor,” Count Olaf said, smiling at the reporter and still holding up the piece of paper. “Be sure to write that down.” “I will,” the reporter said breathlessly, and held her microphone closer to Olaf’s mouth. “Ladies and gentlemen,” Count Olaf cried. “I am now unfolding the first fold in the piece of paper!” “Oh boy!” cried several members of the audience. “Hooray for the first fold!” “There are only five folds left,” Olaf said. “Only five more folds, and we’ll know which freak will be thrown to the lions.” “This is so exciting!” cried the man with dyed hair. “I might faint!” “Just don’t faint into the pit,” his wife said. “I am now unfolding the second fold in the piece of paper!” Count Olaf announced. “Now there are only four folds left!” The lions roared impatiently, as if they were tired of all this nonsense with the piece of paper but the audience cheered for the increased suspense and paid no attention to the beasts in the pit, gazing only at Count Olaf, who smiled and blew kisses to the carnival visitors. The Baudelaires, however, were no longer looking over the heads of the crowd to watch Olaf do his shtick, a phrase which here means “increase suspense by slowly unfolding a piece of paper printed with the name of someone who was supposed to jump into a pit of lions.” They were taking advantage of the fact that no one was watching them, and stepped as close as they could to one another so they could talk without being overheard. “Do you think we could sneak around the pit to the roller-coaster carts?” Klaus murmured to his sister. “I think it’s too crowded,” Violet replied. “Do you think we could get the lions not to eat anyone?” “I think they’re too hungry,” Klaus said, squinting down at the growling beasts. “I read a book about large feline animals that said if they’re hungry enough, they’ll eat practically anything.” “Is there anything else you’ve read about lions that can help us?” Violet asked. “I don’t think so,” Klaus replied. “Is there anything else you can invent from that fan belt that can help us?” “I don’t think so,” Violet replied, her voice faint with fear. “Deja vu!” Sunny called up to her siblings. She meant something along the lines of, “We must be able to think of something that can help us. We’ve escaped from bloodthirsty crowds before.” “Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “When we lived at Heimlich Hospital, we learned about stalling a crowd, when we postponed Olaf’s scheme to operate on you.” “And when we lived at the Village of Fowl Devotees,” Violet said, “we learned about mob psychology, when we watched all the villagers get so upset that they couldn’t think clearly. But what can we do with this crowd? What can we do now?” “Both!” Sunny murmured, and then growled quickly in case anybody was listening. “I unfolded the paper again!” Count Olaf crowed, and I probably do not have to tell you that he explained that there were only three folds left, or that the crowd cheered him once more, as if he had done something very brave or very noble. I probably do not have to tell you that he announced the remaining three folds as if they were very exciting events, and that the crowd cheered him each time, eagerly awaiting the violence and sloppy eating that would follow, and I probably don’t even have to tell you what was written on the piece of paper, because if you have read this far in this wretched book then you are well acquainted with the Baudelaire orphans and you know what kind of freakish luck they have. A person with normal luck would arrive at a carnival in comfortable circumstances, such as in a double-decker bus or on the back of an elephant, and would probably have a pleasant time enjoying all of the things a carnival has to offer, and would feel happy and content at the end of their stay. But the Baudelaires had arrived at Caligari Carnival in the trunk of an automobile, and had been forced to put themselves in uncomfortable disguises, take part in a humiliating show, and place themselves in dangerous circumstances, and, as their freakish luck would have it, had not even found the information they were hoping to discover. So it probably will not be a surprise to you to learn that Hugo’s name was not printed on the piece of paper in Count Olaf’s hand, or Colette’s name, or the name of Kevin, who was clasping his equally skilled hands together in nervousness as Olaf finally unfolded the paper completely. It will not surprise you that when Count Olaf announced what the paper said, the eyes of the entire crowd fell on the disguised children. But although you might not be surprised at Count Olaf’s announcement, you might be surprised at the announcement that one of the siblings made immediately afterward. “Ladies and gentlemen,” Count Olaf announced, “Beverly and Elliot, the two-headed freak, will be thrown to the lions today.” “Ladies and gentlemen,” Violet Baudelaire announced, “we are thrilled to be chosen.” like my history of the Baudelaire orphans, and tragedies are stories that usually begin fairly happily and then steadily go downhill, until all of the characters are dead, wounded, or otherwise inconvenienced. It is usually not much fun to watch a tragedy, whether you are in the audience or one of the characters, and out of all Shakespeare’s tragedies possibly the least fun example is King Lear, which tells the story of a king who goes mad while his daughters plot to murder one another and other people who are getting on their nerves. Toward the end of the play, one of William Shakespeare’s characters remarks that “Humanity must perforce prey upon itself, like monsters of the deep,” a sentence which here means “How sad it is that people end up hurting one another as if they were ferocious sea monsters,” and when the character utters those unhappy words, the people in Shakespeare’s audience often weep, or sigh, or remind themselves to see a comedy next time. I am sorry to report that the story of the Baudelaire orphans has reached a point where it is appropriate to borrow Mr. Shakespeare’s rather depressing sentence to describe how the Baudelaire orphans felt as they addressed the crowd gathered at the edge of the lion pit and tried to continue the story they found themselves in without turning it into a tragedy, when it seemed that everyone was eager to hurt one another. Count Olaf and his henchmen were eager to see Violet and Klaus jump to their carnivorous deaths, so that Caligari Carnival would become more popular, and Madame Lulu would continue telling Olaf’s fortune. Esme Squalor was eager to see Madame Lulu thrown into the pit, so that she could get all of Olaf’s attention, and the Baudelaires’ coworkers were eager to help, so they could join Olaf’s troupe. The reporter from The Daily Punctilio and the other members of the audience were eager to see violence and sloppy eating, so their visit to the carnival would be worthwhile, and the lions were eager for a meal, after being whipped and denied food for so long. It seemed that every member of humanity gathered at the roller coaster that afternoon was eager for something awful to occur, and the children felt awful as Violet and Klaus stepped toward the plank and pretended they were just as eager. “Thank you, Count Olaf, for choosing my other head and I as the first victims in the lion show,” Klaus said grandly in his high-pitched voice. “Um, you’re welcome,” Count Olaf replied, looking a bit surprised. “Now, jump into the pit so we can watch the lions devour you.” “And do it quickly!” cried the man with pimples on his chin. “I’d like my carnival visit to be worthwhile!” “Instead of watching a freak jump into the pit,” Violet said, thinking quickly, “wouldn’t you rather watch someone push a freak into the pit? That would be much more violent.” “Grr!” Sunny growled, in disguised agreement. “That’s a good point,” one of the white-faced women said thoughtfully. “Oh yes!” cried the woman with dyed hair. “I want to see the two-headed freak thrown to the lions!” “I agree,” Esme said, glaring at the two older Baudelaires and then at Madame Lulu. “I’d like to see someone thrown into the pit.” The crowd cheered and applauded, and Sunny watched as her two siblings took a step toward the plank that hung over the pit where the lions were waiting hungrily. There are tiresome people who say that if you ever find yourself in a difficult situation, you should stop and figure out the right thing to do, but the three siblings already knew that the right thing to do was to dash over to the roller-coaster carts, hook up the fan belt, and escape into the hinterlands with Madame Lulu and her archival library, after calmly explaining to the gathered crowd that bloodshed was not a proper form of entertainment and that Count Olaf and his troupe ought to be arrested that very instant. But there are times in this harum-scarum world when figuring out the right thing to do is quite simple, but doing the right thing is simply impossible, and then you must do something else. The three Baudelaires standing in their disguises in the midst of a crowd eager for violence and sloppy eating, knew that they could not do the right thing, but they thought they could try to get the crowd as frantic as possible, so that they might slip away in the confusion. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny weren’t sure if using the techniques of stalling and mob psychology was the right thing to do, but the Baudelaire orphans could not think of anything else, and whether or not it was the right thing to do, their plan did seem to be working. “This is absolutely thrilling!” exclaimed the reporter excitedly. “I can see the headline now: 'FREAKS PUSHED INTO LION PIT!’ Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio see that!” Sunny made the loudest growl she could, and pointed one of her tiny fingers at Count Olaf. “What Chabo is trying to convey in her half-wolf language,” Klaus said, “is that Count Olaf ought to be the one to push us into the pit. After all, the lion show was his idea.” “That’s true!” the pimpled man said. “Let’s see Olaf throw Beverly and Elliot into the pit!” Count Olaf scowled at the Baudelaires, and then gave the crowd a smile that showed quite a few of his filthy teeth. “I am deeply honored to be asked,” he said, bowing slightly, “but I’m afraid it would not be appropriate at this time.” “Why not?” demanded the woman with dyed hair. Count Olaf paused for a moment, and then made a short, high-pitched sound as disguised as Sunny’s growl. “I’m allergic to cats,” he explained. “You see? I’m sneezing already, and I’m not even on the plank.” “Your allergies didn’t bother you when you were whipping the lions,” Violet said. “That’s true,” the hook-handed man said. “I didn’t even know you had allergies, Olaf.” Count Olaf glared at his henchman. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he began, but the crowd didn’t want to hear another one of the villain’s speeches. “Push the freak in, Olaf!” someone shouted, and everyone cheered. Count Olaf frowned, but grabbed Klaus’s hand and led the two eldest Baudelaires onto the plank. But as the crowd roared around them and the lions roared beneath them, the Baudelaires could see that Count Olaf was no more eager to get any closer to the hungry lions than they were. “Throwing people into pits isn’t really my job,” Count Olaf said nervously to the crowd. “I’m more of an actor.” “I have an idea,” Esme said suddenly, in a false sweet voice, “Madame Lulu, why don’t you walk down that plank and throw your freak to its death?” “This is not really my job either, please,” Madame Lulu protested, looking at the children nervously. “I am fortune-teller, not freak-thrower.” “Don’t be so modest, Madame Lulu,” Count Olaf said with a nasty smile. “Even though the lion show was my idea, you’re the most important person here at the carnival. Take my place on the plank, so we can see someone get pushed to their death.” “What a nice offer!” the reporter cried. “You’re a very generous person, Count Olaf!” “Let’s see Madame Lulu throw Beverly and Elliot into the pit!” cried the pimpled man, and everyone cheered again. As mob psychology began to take hold, the crowd seemed to be as flexible as it was excited, and they gave the fortune-teller an enormous round of applause as she nervously took Count Olaf’s place on the plank. The piece of wood teetered for a moment from the weight of so many people standing on it, and the older Baudelaires had to struggle to keep their balance. The crowd gasped in excitement, and then groaned as the two disguised children managed not to fall. “This is so exciting!” squealed the reporter. “Maybe Lulu will fall in, too!” “Yes,” Esme snarled. “Maybe she will.” “I don’t care who falls in!” announced the pimpled man. Lrustrated by the delay in violence and sloppy eating, he tossed his cold beverage into the pit and splashed several lions, who roared in annoyance. “To me, a woman in a turban is just as freaky as a two headed person. I’m not prejudiced!” “Me neither!” agreed someone who was wearing a hat with the words CALIGARI CARNIVAL printed on it. “I’m just eager for this show to finally get started! I hope Madame Lulu is brave enough to push that freak in!” “It doesn’t matter if she’s brave enough,” the bald man replied with a chuckle. “Everyone will do what they’re expected to do. What other choice do they have?” Violet and Klaus had reached the end of the plank, and they tried as hard as they could to think of an answer to the bald man’s question. Below them was a roaring mass of hungry lions, who had gathered so closely together below the wooden board that they just seemed to be a mass of waving claws and open mouths, and around them was a roaring crowd of people who were watching them with eager smiles on their faces. The Baudelaires had succeeded in getting the crowd more and more frantic, but they still hadn’t found an opportunity to slip away in the confusion, and now it seemed like that opportunity would never knock. With difficulty, Violet turned her head to face her brother, and Klaus squinted back at her, and Sunny could see that her siblings’ eyes were filled with tears. “Our luck may have run out,” she said. “Stop whispering to your heads!” Count Olaf ordered in a terrible voice. “Madame Lulu, push them in this instant” “We’re increasing the suspense!” Klaus cried back desperately. “The suspense has been increased enough,” replied the man with the pimpled chin impatiently. “I’m getting tired of all this stalling!” “Me, too!” cried the woman with dyed hair. “Me, too!” cried someone else standing nearby. “Olaf, hit Lulu with the whip! That’ll get her to stop stalling!” “Just one moment, please,” Madame Lulu said, and took another step toward Violet and Klaus. The plank teetered again, and the lions roared, hoping that their lunch was about to arrive. Madame Lulu looked at the elder Baudelaires frantically and the children saw her shoulders shrug slightly underneath her shimmering robe. “Enough of this!” the hook-handed man said, and stepped forward impatiently. “I’ll throw them in myself. I guess I’m the only person here brave enough to do it!” “Oh, no,” Hugo said. “I’m brave enough, too, and so are Colette and Kevin.” “Freaks who are brave?” the hook-handed man sneered. “Don’t be ridiculous!” “We are brave,” Hugo insisted. “Count Olaf, let us prove it to you, and then you can employ us!” “Employ you?” Count Olaf asked with a frown. “What a wonderful idea!” Esme exclaimed, as if the idea had not been hers. “Yes,” Colette said. “We’d like to find something else to do, and this seems like a wonderful opportunity.” Kevin stepped forward and held out both his hands. “I know I’m a freak,” he said to Olaf, “but I think I could be just as useful as the hook-handed man, or your bald associate.” “What?” the bald man snapped. “A freak like you, as useful as me? Don’t be ridiculous!” “I can be useful,” Kevin insisted. “You just watch.” “Stop all this bickering!” the pimpled man said crankily. “I didn’t visit this carnival to hear people argue about their work problems.” “You’re distracting me and my other head,” Violet said in her low, disguised voice. “Let’s get off this plank and we can all discuss this matter calmly.” “I don’t want to discuss things calmly!” cried the woman with dyed hair. “I can do that at home! ” “Yes!” agreed the reporter from The Daily Punctilio. “'PEOPLE DISCUSS THINGS CALMLY’ is a boring headline! Somebody throw somebody else into the lion pit, and we’ll all get what we want!” “Madame Lulu will do it, please!” Madame Lulu announced in a booming voice, and grabbed Violet and Klaus by the shirt. The Baudelaires looked up at her and saw a tear appear in one of her eyes, and she leaned down to speak to them. “I’m sorry, Baudelaires,” she murmured quietly, without a trace of accent, and reached down to Violet’s hand and took the fan belt away from her. Sunny was so upset that she forgot to growl. “Trenceth!” she shrieked, which meant something along the lines of, “You ought to be ashamed of yourself!” but if the fake fortune-teller was ashamed of herself she did not behave accordingly. “Madame Lulu always says you must always give people what they want,” she said grandly in her disguised voice. “She will do the throwing, please, and she will do it now!” “Don’t be ridiculous,” Hugo said, stepping forward eagerly. “I’ll do it!” “You’re the one being ridiculous!” Colette said, contorting her body toward Lulu. “I’ll doit!” “No, I’ll do it!” Kevin cried. “With both hands!” “I’ll do it!” the bald man cried, blocking Kevin’s way. “I don’t want a freak like you for a coworker!” “I’ll do it!” cried the hook-handed man. “I’ll do it!” cried one of the white-faced women. “I’ll do it!” cried the other one. “I’ll get someone else to do it!” cried Esme Squalor. Count Olaf unwound his whip and flicked it over the heads of the crowd with a mighty snap! that made everyone cower, a word which here means “cringe and duck and hope not to get whipped.” “Silence!” he commanded in a terrible roar. “All of you ought to be ashamed of yourselves. You’re arguing like a bunch of children! I want to see those lions devouring someone this very instant, and whoever has the courage to carry out my orders will get a special reward!” This speech, of course, was just the latest example of Count Olaf’s tedious philosophy concerning a stubborn mule moving in the proper direction if there is a carrot dangling in front of it, but the offer of a special reward finally got the crowd as frantic as possible. In a moment, the crowd of carnival visitors had become a mob of volunteers, all of whom swarmed eagerly forward to finally throw someone to the lions. Hugo lunged forward to push Madame Lulu, but bumped into the box that the white-faced women were holding, and the three of them fell in a heap at the edge of the pit. The hook-handed man lunged forward to grab Violet and Klaus, but his hook caught in the cord of the reporter’s microphone and became hopelessly entangled. Colette contorted her arms so as to grab Lulu’s ankles, but grabbed Esme Squalor’s ankle by accident, and got her hands all twisted around one of Esme‘s fashionable shoes. The woman with dyed hair decided she might give it a try, and leaned forward to push the elder Baudelaires, but they stepped to the side and the woman fell into her husband, who accidentally slapped the man with pimples on his chin, and the three carnival visitors began arguing loudly. Quite a few people who were standing nearby decided to get in on the argument, and gathered around to shout in each other’s faces. Within moments of Count Olaf’s announcement, the Baudelaires were in the middle of a furious mass of humanity, who were standing over the children, yelling and pushing and preying on themselves like monsters of the deep, while the lions roared furiously in the pit below. But then the siblings heard another sound in the pit, a horrible crunching and ripping sound that was far worse than the roaring of beasts. The crowd stopped arguing to see what was making the noise, but the Baudelaires were not interested in seeing anything more, and stepped back from the terrible sound, and huddled against one another with their eyes shut as tightly as possible. Even in this position, however, the children could hear the terrible, terrible sounds from the pit, even over the laughter and cheers of the carnival visitors as they crowded together at the edge of the pit to see what was happening, and so the three youngsters turned away from the commotion, and, with their eyes still closed, slipped away in the confusion, stumbling through all of the cheering people until at last they were in the clear, a phrase which here means “far enough away from the roller coaster that they could no longer see or hear what was going on.” But the Baudelaire orphans, of course, could still imagine what was happening, as I can imagine it, even though I was not there that afternoon and have only read descriptions of what occurred down in the pit. The article in The Daily Punctilio says that it was Madame Lulu who fell first, but newspaper articles are often inaccurate, so it is impossible to say if this is actually true. Perhaps she did fall first, and the bald man fell after her, or perhaps Lulu managed to push the bald man in as she tried to escape his grasp, only to slip and join him in the pit just moments later. Or perhaps these two people were still struggling when the plank teetered one more time, and the lions reached both of them at the same time. It is likely that I will never know, just as I will probably never know the location of the fan belt, no matter how many times I return to Caligari Carnival to search for it. At first I thought that Madame Lulu dropped the strip of rubber on the ground near the pit, but I have searched the entire area with a shovel and a flashlight and found no sign of it, and none of the carnival visitors whose houses I have searched seem to have taken it home for a souvenir. Then I thought that perhaps the fan belt was thrown into the air during all the commotion, and perhaps landed up in the tracks of the roller coaster, but I have climbed over every inch without success. And there is, of course, the possibility that it has burned away, but lightning devices are generally made of a certain type of rubber that is difficult to burn, so that possibility seems remote. And so I must admit that I do not know for certain where the fan belt is, and, like knowing whether it was the bald man or Madame Lulu who fell first, that this may be information that will never come to me. But I can imagine that the small strip of rubber ended up in the same place as the woman who removed it from the lightning device and gave it to the Baudelaire orphans, only to snatch it back at the last minute, and in the same place as the associate of Olaf’s who was so eager to get a special reward. If I close my eyes, as the Baudelaire orphans closed their eyes as they stumbled away from this unfortunate event, I can imagine that the fan belt, like the bald man and my former associate Olivia, fell into the pit that Olaf and his henchmen had dug, and ended up in the belly of the beast. the insignia of an organization that might help them. Now they stood and stared again, hoping that something would change before their very eyes until they saw what it was that they could do. But nothing seemed to change no matter how hard they looked. The carnival remained silent, and the afternoon continued to creep toward evening, and the insignia on the tent simply stared back at the weeping Baudelaires. “I wonder where the fan belt is,” Violet said finally. Her voice was faint and almost hoarse, but her tears had stopped at last. “I wonder if it fell to the ground, or was thrown onto the tracks of the roller coaster, or if it ended up — ” “How can you think about a fan belt at a time like this?” Klaus asked, although his voice was not angry. Like his sister, he was still trembling inside the shirt they shared, and felt very tired, as is often the case after a long cry. “I don’t want to think about anything else,” Violet said. “I don’t want to think about Madame Lulu and the lions, and I don’t want to think about Count Olaf and the crowd, and I don’t want to think about whether or not we did the right thing.” “Right,” Sunny said gently. “I agree,” Klaus said. “We did the best we could.” “I’m not so sure,” Violet replied. “I had the fan belt in my hand. It was all we needed to finish the invention and escape from this awful place.” “You couldn’t finish the invention,” Klaus said. “We were surrounded by a crowd of people who wanted to see someone thrown to the lions. It’s not our fault that she fell in instead.” “And bald,” Sunny added. “But we made the crowd even more frantic,” Violet said. “First we stalled the show, and then we used mob psychology to get them excited about throwing somebody into the pit.” “Count Olaf is the one who thought up this whole ghastly scheme,” Klaus said. “What happened to Madame Lulu is his fault, not ours.” “We promised to take her with us,” Violet insisted. “Madame Lulu kept her promise and didn’t tell Count Olaf who we were, but we didn’t keep ours.” “We tried,” Klaus said. “We tried to keep ours.” “Trying’s not good enough,” Violet said. “Are we going to try to find one of our parents? Are we going to try to defeat Count Olaf?” “Yes,” Sunny said firmly, and wrapped her arms around Violet’s leg. The eldest Baudelaire looked down at her sister and her eyes filled with tears. “Why are we here?” she asked. “We thought we could put on disguises and get ourselves out of trouble, but we’re worse off than when we began. We don’t know what V.F.D. stands for. We don’t know where the Snicket file is. And we don’t know if one of our parents is really alive.” “There are some things we might not know,” Klaus said, “but that doesn’t mean we should give up. We can find out what we need to know. We can find out anything.” Violet smiled through her tears. “You sound like a researcher,” she said. The middle Baudelaire reached into his pocket and pulled out his glasses. “I am a researcher,” he said, and stepped toward the entrance to the tent. “Let’s get to work.” “Ghede!” Sunny said, which meant something like, “I almost forgot about the archival library!” and she followed her siblings through the flap in the tent. As soon as the Baudelaire orphans stepped inside, they saw that Madame Lulu had made quite a few preparations for her escape with the children, and it made them very sad to think that she would never return to the fortune-telling tent to collect the things she had waiting for her. Her disguise kit was all packed up again, and waiting by the door so she could take it with her. There was a cardboard box standing next to the cupboard, filled with food that could be eaten on the journey. And laid out on the table, next to Madame Lulu’s replacement crystal ball and various parts of the lightning device she had dismantled, was a large piece of paper that was badly torn and looked very old, but the Baudelaires saw at once that it could help them. “It’s a map,” Violet said. “It’s a map of the Mortmain Mountains . She must have had it among her papers.” Klaus put his glasses on and peered at it closely. “Those mountains must be very cold this time of year,” he said. “I didn’t realize the altitude was so high.” “Never mind the altitude,” Violet said. “Can you find the headquarters Lulu was talking about?” “Let’s see,” Klaus said. “There’s a star next to Plath Pass , but the key says that a star indicates a campground.” “Key?” Sunny asked. “This chart in the corner of the map is called a key,” Klaus explained. “You see? The map-maker explains what each symbol means, so the map doesn’t get too cluttered.” “There’s a black rectangle there in the Richter Range ,” she said. “See? Over in the east?” “A black rectangle indicates hibernation grounds,” Klaus said. “There must be quite a few bears in the Mortmain Mountains . Look, there are five hibernation grounds near Silent Springs, and a large cluster of them at the top of Paucity Peak .” “And here,” Violet said, “in the Valley of Four Drafts, where it looks like Madame Lulu spilled coffee.” “Valley of Four Drafts!” Klaus said. “V.F.D.!” Sunny cried. The Baudelaires peered together at the spot on the map. The Valley of Four Drafts was high up in the Mortmain Mountains , where it would be very cold. The Stricken Stream began there, and wound its way down to the sea in sagging curves through the hinterlands, and the map showed many, many hibernation grounds along the way. There was a small brown stain in the center of the valley, where four gaps in the mountains came together and where Lulu had probably spilled coffee, but there were no markings for a headquarters or for anything else. “Do you think it means something?” Violet asked. “Or is it just a coincidence, like all the V.F.D.s we’ve come across?” “I thought the V in V.F.D. stood for ‘volunteer,’” Klaus said. “That’s what we found written on a page of the Quagmire notebooks, and it’s what Jacques Snicket said.” “Winnow?” Sunny asked, which meant “But where else could the headquarters be? There’s no other marking on the map.” “Well, if V.F.D. is a secret organization,” Violet said, “they might not put their headquarters on a map.” ‘Or it could be marked secretly,“ Klaus said, and leaned in to take a good look at the stain. ’’Maybe this isn’t just a stain,“ he said. ’’Maybe it’s a secret marking. Maybe Madame Lulu put some coffee here on purpose, so she could find the headquarters, but nobody else could.” “I guess we’ll have to travel there,” Violet said with a sigh, “and find out.” “How are we going to travel there?” Klaus said. “We don’t know where the fan belt is.” “We might be missing some parts,” Violet replied, “but that doesn’t mean we should give up. I can build something else.” “You sound like an inventor,” he said. Violet smiled, and took her hair ribbon out of her pocket. “I am an inventor,” she said. “I’ll look around here and see if there’s anything else we can use. Klaus, you look under the table at the archival library.” “We’d better get out of the clothes we’re sharing,” Klaus said, “or we can’t do two things at once.” “Ingredi,” Sunny said, which meant “Meanwhile, I’ll look through all this food and make sure we have everything we need to prepare meals.” “Good idea,” Violet said. “We’d better hurry before someone finds us.” “There you are!” called a voice from the entrance to the tent, and the Baudelaires jumped. Violet hurriedly stuffed her ribbon back into her pocket, and Klaus removed his glasses, so they could turn around without revealing their disguise. Count Olaf and Esme Squalor were standing together in the doorway of the tent, with their arms around one another, looking tired but happy, as if they were two parents coming home after a long day at work, instead of a vicious villain and his scheming girlfriend coming into a fortune¬ teller’s tent after an afternoon of violence. Esme Squalor was clutching a small bouquet of ivy her boyfriend had apparently given her, and Count Olaf was holding a flaming torch, which was shining as brightly as his wicked eyes. “I’ve been looking everywhere for you two,” he said. “What are you doing in here?” “We decided to let all of you freaks join us,” Esme said, “even though you weren’t very courageous at the lions’ pit.” “That’s very kind of you to offer,” Violet said quickly, “but you don’t want cowards like us in your troupe.” “Sure we do,” Count Olaf said, with a nasty smile. “We keep losing assistants, and it’s always good to have a few to spare. I even asked the woman who runs the gift caravan to join us, but she was too worried about her precious figurines to know that opportunity was knocking.” “Besides,” Esme said, stroking Olaf’s hair, “you don’t really have any choice. We’re going to burn this carnival down to eliminate all the evidence that we’ve been here. Most of the tents are already on fire, and the carnival visitors and carnival workers are running for their lives. If you don’t join us, where can you possibly go?” The Baudelaires looked at one another in dismay. “I guess you’re right,” Klaus said. “Of course we’re right,” Esme said. “Now get out of here and help us pack up the trunk.” “Wait a minute,” Count Olaf said, and strode over to the table. “What’s this?” he demanded. “It looks like a map.” “It is a map,” Klaus admitted with a sigh, wishing he had hidden it in his pockets. “A map of the Mortmain Mountains.” “The Mortmain Mountains?” Count Olaf said, examining the map eagerly. “Why, that’s where we’re heading! Lulu said that if there was a parent alive, they’d be hiding up there! Does the map show any headquarters on it?” “I think these black rectangles indicate headquarters,” Esme said, peering over Olaf’s shoulder. “I’m pretty good at reading maps.” “No, they represent campgrounds,” Olaf said, looking at the key, but then his face broke out into a smile. “Wait a minute,” he said, and pointed to the stain the Baudelaires had been examining. “I haven’t seen one of these in a long time,” he said, stroking his scraggly chin. “A small brown stain?” Esme asked. “You saw that this morning.” “This is a coded stain,” Count Olaf explained. “I was taught to use this on maps when I was a little boy. It’s to mark a secret location without anyone else noticing.” “Except a smashing genius,” Esme said. “I guess we’re heading for the Valley of Four Drafts.” “V.F.D.,” Count Olaf said, and giggled. “That’s appropriate. Well, let’s go. Is there anything else useful in here?” The Baudelaires looked quickly at the table, where the archival library was hidden. Underneath the black tablecloth decorated with silver stars was all the crucial information Madame Lulu had gathered to give her visitors what they wanted. The children knew that all sorts of important secrets could be found in the gathering of paper, and they shuddered to think what Count Olaf would do if he discovered all those secrets. “No,” Klaus said finally. “Nothing else useful.” Count Olaf frowned, and kneeled down so that his face was right next to Klaus’s. Even without his glasses, the middle Baudelaire could see that Olaf had not washed his one eyebrow for quite some time, and could smell his breath as he spoke. “I think you’re lying to me,” the villain said, and waved the lit torch in Klaus’s face. “My other head is telling the truth,” Violet said. “Then what is that food doing there?” Count Olaf demanded, pointing at the cardboard box. “Don’t you think food would be useful for a long journey?” The Baudelaires sighed in relief. “Grr!” Sunny growled. “Chabo compliments you on your cleverness,” Klaus said, “and so do we. We hadn’t noticed that box.” “That’s why I’m the boss,” Count Olaf said, “because I’m smart and I have good eyesight.” He laughed nastily, and put the torch in Klaus’s hand. “Now then,” he said, “I want you to light this tent on fire, and then bring the box of food over to the car. Chabo, come with me. I’m sure I’ll find something for you to sink your teeth into.” “Grr,” Sunny said doubtfully. “Chabo would prefer to stay with us,” Violet said. “I couldn’t care less what Chabo would prefer,” Olaf snarled, and picked up the youngest Baudelaire as if she were a watermelon. “Now get busy.” Count Olaf and Esme Squalor walked out of the tent with Chabo, leaving the elder Baudelaires alone with the flaming torch. “We’d better pick up the box first,” Klaus said, “and light the tent from the outside. Otherwise we’ll be surrounded by flames in no time.” “Are we really going to follow Olaf’s orders?” Violet asked, looking at the table again. “The archival library might have the answers to all our questions.” “I don’t think we have a choice,” Klaus said. “Olaf is burning down the whole carnival, and riding with him is our only chance to get to the Mortmain Mountains . You don’t have time to invent something, and I don’t have time to look through the library.” “We could find one of the other carnival employees,” Violet said, “and ask them if they would help us.” “Everyone either thinks that we’re freaks or murderers,” Klaus said. “Sometimes even I think so.” “If we join Count Olaf,” Violet said, “we might become even more freakish and murderous.” “But if we don’t join him,” Klaus asked, “where can we possibly go?” “I don’t know,” Violet said sadly, “but this can’t be the right thing to do, can it?” “Maybe it’s harum-scarum,” Klaus said, “like Olivia said.” “Maybe it is,” Violet said, and walked awkwardly with her brother to the cardboard box and picked it up. Klaus held the torch, and the two Baudelaires walked out of the fortune¬ telling tent for the last time. When they first stepped out, still wearing the same pair of pants, it seemed as if night had already fallen, although the air was black and not the blue of the famous hinterlands sunsets. But then Violet and Klaus realized that the air was filling with smoke. Looking around, they saw that many of the tents and caravans were already on fire, as Count Olaf had said, and the flames were billowing black smoke up into the sky. Around them, the last of the carnival visitors were rushing to escape from Olaf’s treachery, and in the distance the siblings could hear the panicked roars of the lions, who were still trapped in the pit. “This isn’t the kind of violence I like!” shouted the man with pimples on his face, coughing in the smoke as he ran by. “I prefer it when other people are in danger!” “Me, too!” said the reporter from The Daily Punctilio, running alongside him. “Olaf told me that the Baudelaires are responsible! I can see the headline now: ‘BAUDELAIRES CONTINUE THEIR LIVES OF CRIME!’” “What kind of children would do such a terrible thing?” asked the man with the pimpled chin, but Violet and Klaus could not hear the answer over the voice of Count Olaf. “Hurry up, you two-headed freak!” he called from around the corner. “If you don’t come here right this minute, we’re leaving without you!” “Grr!” Sunny growled frantically, and at the sound of their baby sister’s disguised voice, the older Baudelaires threw the lit torch into the fortune-telling tent, and ran toward Olaf’s voice without looking back, although it wouldn’t have mattered if they had looked. There was so much fire and smoke around them one more burning tent wouldn’t have made the carnival look any different. The only difference was that they would have known that part of the fire was of their own devising, a phrase which here means “because of their part in Count Olaf’s treachery,” and although neither Violet nor Klaus saw this with their own eyes, they knew it in their hearts, and I doubt that they would ever forget it. When the older Baudelaires rounded the corner, they saw that all of Olaf’s other henchmen were already waiting at the long, black automobile, which was parked in front of the freaks’ caravan. Hugo, Colette, and Kevin were crowded in the back seat with the two white-faced women, while Esme Squalor sat in the front, with Sunny on her lap. The hook-handed man took the box out of the older Baudelaires’ hands and threw it into the trunk while Count Olaf pointed to the caravan with his whip, which looked much shorter, and rough around the edges. “You two will ride in that,” he said. “We’re going to attach it to the automobile and pull you along with us.” “Isn’t there room in the car?” Violet asked nervously. “Don’t be ridiculous,” the hook-handed man said with a sneer. “It’s too crowded. Good thing Colette is a contortionist, so she can curl into a ball at our feet.” “Chabo already gnawed my whip down so it could be used as a connecting rope,” Count Olaf said. “I’ll just tie the caravan to the car with a double slipknot, and then we’ll ride off into the sunset.” “Excuse me,” Violet said, “but I know a knot called the Devil’s Tongue that I think will hold better.” “And if I remember the map correctly,” Klaus said, “we should ride east until we find Stricken Stream, so we should drive that way, away from the sunset.” “Yes, yes, yes,” Count Olaf said quickly. “That’s what I meant. Tie it yourself if you want. I’ll go start the engine.” Olaf tossed the rope to Klaus while the hook-handed man reached into the trunk again, and brought out a pair of walkie-talkies the children remembered from when they were living in Olaf’s home. “Take one of these,” he said, putting one in Violet’s hand, “so we can contact you if we need to tell you something.” “Hurry up,” Count Olaf snapped, taking the other walkie-talkie. “The air is filling with smoke.” The villain and his henchmen got into the automobile, and Violet and Klaus knelt down to attach the caravan. “I can’t believe I’m using this knot to help Count Olaf,” she said. “It feels like I’m using my inventing skills to participate in something wicked.” “We’re all participating,” Klaus said glumly. “Sunny used her teeth to turn that whip into a connecting rope, and I used my map skills to tell Olaf which direction to head.” “At least we’ll get there, too,” Violet said, “and maybe one of our parents will be waiting for us. There. The knot’s tied. Let’s get in the caravan.” “I wish we were riding with Sunny,” Klaus said. “We are,” Violet said. “We’re not getting to the Mortmain Mountains the way we want, but we’re getting there, and that’s what counts.” “I hope so,” Klaus said, and he and his sister stepped into the freaks’ caravan and shut the door. Count Olaf started the engine of the car, and the caravan began to rock gently back and forth as the automobile pulled them away from the carnival. The hammocks swayed above the two siblings, and the rack of clothing creaked beside them, but the knot Violet had tied held fast, and the two vehicles began traveling in the direction Klaus had pointed. “We might as well get comfortable,” Violet said. “We’ll be traveling a long time.” “All night at least,” Klaus said, “and probably most of the next day. I hope they’ll stop and share the food.” “Maybe we can make some hot chocolate later,” Violet said. “With cinnamon,” Klaus said, smiling as he thought of Sunny’s recipe. “But what should we do in the meantime?” Violet sighed, and she and her brother sat down on a chair so she could lay her head on the table, which was shaking slightly as the caravan headed out into the hinterlands. The eldest Baudelaire put down the walkie-talkie next to the set of dominoes. “Let’s just sit,” she said, “and think.” Klaus nodded in agreement, and the two Baudelaires sat and thought for the rest of the afternoon, as the automobile pulled them farther and farther away from the burning carnival. Violet tried to imagine what the V.F.D. headquarters might look like, and hoped that one of their parents would be there. Klaus tried to imagine what Olaf and his troupe were talking about, and hoped that Sunny was not too frightened. And both the older Baudelaires thought about all that had happened at Caligari Carnival, and wondered whether or not they had done the right things. They had disguised themselves in order to find the answers to their questions, and now the answers were burning up under Madame Lulu’s table, as her archival library went up in smoke. They had encouraged their coworkers to find employment someplace where they wouldn’t be considered freaks, and now they had joined Count Olaf’s evil troupe. And they had promised Madame Lulu that they would take her with them, so she could lead them to V.F.D. and become a noble person again, but she had fallen into the lion pit and become nothing but a meal. Violet and Klaus thought about all of the trouble they were in, and wondered if it was all due to simple misfortune, or if some of it was of their own devising. These were not the most pleasant thoughts in the world, but it still felt good to sit and think about them, instead of hiding and lying and frantically thinking up plans. It was peaceful to sit and think in the freaks’ caravan, even when the caravan tilted slightly as they reached the beginning of the Mortmain Mountains and began to head uphill. It was so peaceful to sit and think that both Violet and Klaus felt as if they were waking up from a long sleep when Count Olaf’s voice came out of the walkie-talkie. A Series of Unfortunate Events 9 - The Carnivorous Carnival “Are you there?” Olaf asked. “Press the red button and speak to me!” Violet rubbed her eyes, picked up the walkie-talkie, and held it so both she and her brother could hear. “We’re here,” she said. “Good,” Count Olaf replied, “because I wanted to tell you that I learned something else from Madame Lulu.” “What did you learn?” Klaus asked. There was a pause, and the two children could hear cruel peals of laughter coming from the small device in Violet’s hand. “I learned that you are the Baudelaires!” Count Olaf cried in triumph. “I learned that you three brats followed me here and tricked me with sneaky disguises. But I’m too clever for you!” Olaf began to laugh again, but over his laughter the two siblings could hear another sound that made them feel as shaky as the caravan. It was Sunny, and she was whimpering in fear. “Don’t hurt her!” Violet cried. “Don’t you dare hurt her!” “Hurt her?” Count Olaf snarled. “Why, I wouldn’t dream of hurting her! After all, I need one orphan to steal the fortune. First I’m going to make sure both of your parents are dead, and then I’m going to use Sunny to become very, very rich! No, I wouldn’t worry about this buck-toothed twerp — not yet. If I were you, I’d worry about yourselves! Say bye-bye to your sister, Baudebrats!” “But we’re tied together,” Klaus said. “We hitched our caravan to you.” “Look out the window,” Count Olaf said, and hung up the walkie-talkie. Violet and Klaus looked at one another, and then staggered to their feet and moved the curtain away from the window. The curtain parted as if they were watching a play, and if I were you I would pretend that this is a play, instead of a book — perhaps a tragedy, written by William Shakespeare — and that you are leaving the theater early to go home and hide under a sofa, because you will recall that there was a certain expression that, I’m sorry to say, must be used three times before this story is over, and it is in the thirteenth chapter when this expression will be used for the third time. The chapter is very short, because the end of this story happened so quickly that it does not take many words to describe, but the chapter does contain the third occasion requiring the expression “the belly of the beast,” and you would be wise to leave before the chapter begins, because that time didn’t count. was trapped in the front seat with Olaf and his villainous girlfriend, but they could imagine how frightened and desperate she was. But the older Baudelaires also saw something that made them frightened and desperate, and it was something they had never thought to imagine. Hugo was leaning out of the back window of the automobile, his hump hidden in the oversized coat Esme Squalor had given him as a present, and he was holding tight to Colette’s ankles. The contortionist had twisted her body around to the back of the car so that her head was lying on the middle of the trunk, between two of the bullet holes that had provided air for the Baudelaires on their way to Caligari Carnival. Like her coworker, Colette was also holding tight to someone’s ankles — the ambidextrous ankles of Kevin, so that all three of Madame Lulu’s former employees were in a sort of human chain. At the end of the chain were Kevin’s hands, which were gripping a long, rusty knife. Kevin looked up at Violet and Klaus, gave them a triumphant grin, and brought the knife down as hard as he could on the knot Violet had tied. The Devil’s Tongue is a very strong knot, and normally it would take a while for a knife to saw through it, even if it was very sharp, but the equal strength in Kevin’s two arms meant that the knife moved with a freakish power, instead of normally, and in an instant the knot was split in two. “No!” Violet yelled. “Sunny!” Klaus screamed. With the caravan unhitched, the two vehicles began going in opposite directions. Count Olaf’s car continued to wind its way up the mountain, but without anything pulling it, the caravan began to roll back down, the way a grapefruit will roll down a flight of stairs if you let it go, and there was no way for Violet or Klaus to steer or stop the caravan from the inside. The Baudelaires screamed again, all three of them, Violet and Klaus alone in the rattling caravan, and Sunny in the car full of villains, as the two vehicles slipped further and further away from each other, but even though Count Olaf was getting closer and closer to what he wanted and the older Baudelaires were getting further and further away, it seemed to the children that all three siblings were ending up at the same place. Even as Count Olaf’s automobile slipped out of view, and the caravan began to slip on the bumpy road, it seemed to the Baudelaire orphans that they were all slipping into the belly of the beast, and that time, I’m sorry to say, counted very, very much. A Series of Unfortunate Events 1- TheBad BeginningASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the FirstThe Bad BeginningLemony SnicketTo Beatrice–darling , dearest, dead.C H A P T E ROneIf you are interested in stories with happy endings, you would be better off readingsome other book. In this book, not only is there no happy ending, there is no happybeginning and very few happy things in the middle. This is because not very many happythings happened in the lives of the three Baudelaire youngsters. Violet, Klaus, and SunnyBaudelaire were intelligent children, and they were charming and resourceful, and hadpleasant facial features, but they were extremely unlucky, and most everything thathappened to them was rife with misfortune, misery, and despair. I’m sorry to tell you this,but that is how the story goes. Their misfortune began one day at Briny Beach. The threeBaudelaire children lived with their parents in an enormous mansion at the heart of a dirtyand busy city, and occasionally their parents gave them permission to take a rickety trolley—the word “rickety,” you probably know, here means “unsteady” or “likely to collapse”—alone to the seashore, where they would spend the day as a sort of vacation as long as theywere home for dinner. This particular morning it was gray and cloudy, which didn’t botherthe Baudelaire youngsters one bit. When it was hot and sunny, Briny Beach was crowdedwith tourists and it was impossible to find a good place to lay one’s blanket. On gray andcloudy days, the Baudelaires had the beach to themselves to do what they liked.Violet Baudelaire, the eldest, liked to skip rocks. Like most fourteen-year-olds, she wasright-handed, so the rocks skipped farther across the murky water when Violet used herright hand than when she used her left. As she skipped rocks, she was looking out at thehorizon and thinking about an invention she wanted to build. Anyone who knew Violetwell could tell she was thinking hard, because her long hair was tied up in a ribbon to keepit out of her eyes. Violet had a real knack for inventing and building strange devices, soher brain was often filled with images of pulleys, levers, and gears, and she never wantedto be distracted by something as trivial as her hair. This morning she was thinking abouthow to construct a device that could retrieve a rock after you had skipped it into the ocean.Klaus Baudelaire, the middle child, and the only boy, liked to examine creatures intidepools. Klaus was a little older than twelve and wore glasses, which made him lookintelligent. He was intelligent. The Baudelaire parents had an enormous library in theirmansion, a room filled with thousands of books on nearly every subject. Being onlytwelve, Klaus of course had not read all of the books in the Baudelaire library, but he hadread a great many of them and had retained a lot of the information from his readings. Heknew how to tell an alligator from a crocodile. He knew who killed Julius Caesar. And heknew much about the tiny, slimy animals found at Briny Beach , which he was examiningnow.Sunny Baudelaire, the youngest, liked to bite things. She was an infant, and very smallfor her age, scarcely larger than a boot. What she lacked in size, however, she made up forwith the size and sharpness of her four teeth. Sunny was at an age where one mostlyspeaks in a series of unintelligible shrieks. Except when she used the few actual words inher vocabulary, like “bottle,” “mommy,” and “bite,” most people had troubleunderstanding what it was that Sunny was saying. For instance, this morning she wassaying “Gack!” over and over, which probably meant, “Look at that mysterious figureemerging from the fog!”Sure enough, in the distance along the misty shore of Briny Beach there could be seen atall figure striding toward the Baudelaire children. Sunny had already been staring andshrieking at the figure for some time when Klaus looked up from the spiny crab he wasexamining, and saw it too. He reached over and touched Violet’s arm, bringing her out ofher inventing thoughts.“Look at that,” Klaus said, and pointed toward the figure. It was drawing closer, and thechildren could see a few details. It was about the size of an adult, except its head was tall,and rather square.“What do you think it is?” Violet asked.“I don’t know,” Klaus said, squinting at it, “but it seems to be moving right toward us.”“We’re alone on the beach,” Violet said, a little nervously. “There’s nobody else it couldbe moving toward.” She felt the slender, smooth stone in her left hand, which she hadbeen about to try to skip as far as she could. She had a sudden thought to throw it at thefigure, because it seemed so frightening.“It only seems scary,” Klaus said, as if reading his sister’s thoughts, “because of all themist.”This was true. As the figure reached them, the children saw with relief that it was notanybody frightening at all, but somebody they knew: Mr. Poe. Mr. Poe was a friend of Mr.and Mrs. Baudelaire’s whom the children had met many times at dinner parties. One of thethings Violet, Klaus, and Sunny really liked about their parents was that they didn’t sendtheir children away when they had company over, but allowed them to join the adults atthe dinner table and participate in the conversation as long as they helped clear the table.The children remembered Mr. Poe because he always had a cold and was constantlyexcusing himself from the table to have a fit of coughing in the next room.Mr. Poe took off his top hat, which had made his head look large and square in the fog,and stood for a moment, coughing loudly into a white handkerchief. Violet and Klausmoved forward to shake his hand and say how do you do.“How do you do?” said Violet.“How do you do?” said Klaus.“Odo yow!” said Sunny.“Fine, thank you,” said Mr. Poe, but he looked very sad. For a few seconds nobodysaid anything, and the children wondered what Mr. Poe was doing there at Briny Beach ,when he should have been at the bank in the city, where he worked. He was not dressedfor the beach.“It’s a nice day,” Violet said finally, making conversation. Sunny made a noise thatsounded like an angry bird, and Klaus picked her up and held her.“Yes, it is a nice day,” Mr. Poe said absently, staring out at the empty beach. “I’m afraidI have some very bad news for you children.”The three Baudelaire siblings looked at him. Violet, with some embarrassment, felt thestone in her left hand and was glad she had not thrown it at Mr. Poe.“Your parents,” Mr. Poe said, “have perished in a terrible fire.”The children didn’t say anything.“They perished,” Mr. Poe said, “in a fire that destroyed the entire house. I’m very, verysorry to tell you this, my dears.”Violet took her eyes off Mr. Poe and stared out at the ocean. Mr. Poe had never calledthe Baudelaire children “my dears” before. She understood the words he was saying butthought he must be joking, playing a terrible joke on her and her brother and sister.“‘Perished,’” Mr. Poe said, “means ‘killed.’”“We know what the word ‘perished’ means,” Klaus said, crossly. He did know what theword “perished” meant, but he was still having trouble understanding exactly what it wasthat Mr. Poe had said. It seemed to him that Mr. Poe must somehow have misspoken.“The fire department arrived, of course,” Mr. Poe said, “but they were too late. Theentire house was engulfed in fire. It burned to the ground. ”Klaus pictured all the books in the library, going up in flames. Now he’d never read allof them.Mr. Poe coughed several times into his handkerchief before continuing. “I was sent toretrieve you here, and to take you to my home, where you’ll stay for some time while wefigure things out. I am the executor of your parents’ estate. That means I will be handlingtheir enormous fortune and figuring out where you children will go. When Violet comes ofage, the fortune will be yours, but the bank will take charge of it until you are oldenough.”Although he said he was the executor, Violet felt like Mr. Poe was the executioner. Hehad simply walked down the beach to them and changed their lives forever.“Come with me,” Mr. Poe said, and held out his hand. In order to take it, Violet had todrop the stone she was holding. Klaus took Violet’s other hand, and Sunny took Klaus’sother hand, and in that manner the three Baudelaire children—the Baudelaire orphans,now—were led away from the beach and from their previous lives .terrible because they had lost both their parents at the same time, and for several daysthey felt so miserable they could scarcely get out of bed. Klaus found he had little interestin books. The gears in Violet’s inventive brain seemed to stop. And even Sunny, who ofcourse was too young to really understand what was going on, bit things with lessenthusiasm.Of course, it didn’t make things any easier that they had lost their home as well, and alltheir possessions. As I’m sure you know, to be in one’s own room, in one’s own bed, canoften make a bleak situation a little better, but the beds of the Baudelaire orphans had beenreduced to charred rubble. Mr. Poe had taken them to the remains of the Baudelairemansion to see if anything had been unharmed, and it was terrible: Violet’s microscopehad fused together in the heat of the fire, Klaus’s favorite pen had turned to ash, and all ofSunny’s teething rings had melted. Here and there, the children could see traces of theenormous home they had loved: fragments of their grand piano, an elegant bottle in whichMr. Baudelaire kept brandy, the scorched cushion of the window seat where their motherliked to sit and read.Their home destroyed, the Baudelaires had to recuperate from their terrible loss in thePoe household, which was not at all agreeable. Mr. Poe was scarcely at home, because hewas very busy attending to the Baudelaire affairs, and when he was home he was oftencoughing so much he could barely have a conversation. Mrs. Poe purchased clothing forthe orphans that was in grotesque colors, and itched. And the two Poe children—Edgarand Albert—were loud and obnoxious boys with whom the Baudelaires had to share a tinyroom that smelled of some sort of ghastly flower.But even given the surroundings, the children had mixed feelings when, over a dulldinner of boiled chicken, boiled potatoes and blanched—the word “blanched” here means“boiled”—string beans, Mr. Poe announced that they were to leave his household the nextmorning.“Good,” said Albert, who had a piece of potato stuck between his teeth. “Now we canget our room back. I’m tired of sharing it. Violet and Klaus are always moping around,and are never any fun.”“And the baby bites,” Edgar said, tossing a chicken bane to the Door as if he were ananimal in a zoo and not the son of a well-respected member of the banking community.“Where will we go?” Violet asked nervously.Mr. Poe opened his mouth to say something, but erupted into a brief fit of coughing. “Ihave made arrangements,” he said finally, “for you to be raised by a distant relative ofyours who lives on the other side of town. His name is Count Olaf.”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked at one another, unsure of what to think. On one hand,they didn’t want to live with the Poes any longer. On the other hand, they had never heardof Count Olaf and didn’t know what he would be like.“Your parents’ will,” Mr. Poe said, “instructs that you be raised in the most convenientway possible. Here in the city, you’ll be used to your surroundings, and this Count Olaf isthe only relative who lives within the urban limits.”Klaus thought this over for a minute as he swallowed a chewy bit of bean. “But ourparents never mentioned Count Olaf to us. Just how is he related to us, exactly?”Mr. Poe sighed and looked down at Sunny, who was biting a fork and listening closely.“He is either a third cousin four times removed, or a fourth cousin three times removed.He is not your closest relative on the family tree, but he is the closest geographically.That’s why—”“If he lives in the city,” Violet said, “why didn’t our parents ever invite him over?”“Possibly because he was very busy,” Mr. Poe said. “He’s an actor by trade, and oftentravels around the world with various theater companies.”“I thought he was a count,” Klaus said.“He is both a count and an actor,” Mr. Poe said. “Now, I don’t mean to cut short ourdinner, but you children have to pack up your things, and I have to return to the bank to dosome more work. Like your new legal guardian, I am very busy myself.”The three Baudelaire children had many more questions for Mr. Poe, but he had alreadystood up from the table, and with a slight wave of his hand departed from the room, Theyheard him coughing into his handkerchief and then the front door creaked shut as he leftthe house.“Well,” Mrs. Poe said, “you three had better start packing. Edgar, Albert, please helpme clear the table.”The Baudelaire orphans went to the bedroom and glumly packed their few belongings.Klaus looked distastefully at each ugly shirt Mrs. Poe had bought for him as he foldedthem and put them into a small suitcase. Violet looked around the cramped, smelly roomin which they had been living. And Sunny crawled around solemnly biting each of Edgarand Albert’s shoes, leaving small teeth marks in each one so she would not be forgotten.From time to time, the Baudelaire children looked at one another, but with their futuresuch a mystery they could think of nothing to say. At bedtime, they tossed and turned allnight, scarcely getting any sleep between the loud snoring of Edgar and Albert and theirown worried thoughts. Finally, Mr. Poe knocked on the door and stuck his head into thebedroom.“Rise and shine, Baudelaires,” he said. “It’s time for you to go to Count Olaf’s.”Violet looked around the crowded bedroom, and even though she didn’t like it, she feltvery nervous about leaving. “Do we have to go right this minute?” she asked.Mr. Poe opened his mouth to speak, but had to cough a few times before he began. “Yesyou do. I’m dropping you off on my way to the bank, so we need to leave as soon aspossible. Please get out of bed and get dressed,” he said briskly. The word “briskly” heremeans “quickly, so as to get the Baudelaire children to leave the house.”The Baudelaire children left the house. Mr. Poe’s automobile rumbled along thecobblestone streets of the city toward the neighborhood where Count Olaf lived. Theypassed horse-drawn carriages and motorcycles along Doldrum Drive . They passed theFickle Fountain, an elaborately carved monument that occasionally spat our water inwhich young children played. They passed an enormous pile of dirt where the RoyalGardens once stood. Before too long, Mr. Poe drove his car down a narrow alley linedwith houses made of pale brick and stopped halfway down the block.“Here we are,” Mr. Poe said, in a voice undoubtedly meant to be cheerful. “Your newhome.”The Baudelaire children looked out and saw the prettiest house on the block. The brickshad been cleaned very well, and through the wide and open windows one could see anassortment of well-groomed plants. Standing in the doorway, with her hand on the shinybrass doorknob, was an older woman, smartly dressed, who was smiling at the children. Inone hand she carried a flowerpot.“Hello there!” she called out. “You must be the children Count Olaf is adopting.”Violet opened the door of the automobile and got out to shake the woman’s hand. It feltfirm and warm, and for the first time in a long while Violet felt as if her life and the livesof her siblings might turn out well after all. “Yes,” she said. “Yes, we are. I am VioletBaudelaire, and this is my brother Klaus and my sister Sunny. And this is Mr. Poe, whohas been arranging things for us since the death of our parents.”“Yes, I heard about the accident,” the woman said, as everyone said how do you do. “Iam Justice Strauss.”“That’s an unusual first name,” Klaus remarked.“It is my title,” she explained, “not my first name. I serve as a judge on the HighCourt.”“How fascinating,” Violet said. “And are you married to Count Olaf?”“Goodness me no,” Justice Strauss said. “I don’t actually know him that well. He is mynext-door neighbor.”The children looked from the well-scrubbed house of Justice Strauss to the dilapidatedone next door. The bricks were stained with soar and grime. There were only two smallwindows, which were closed with the shades drawn even though it was a nice day. Risingabove the windows was a tall and dirty tower that tilted slightly to the left. The front doorneeded to be repainted, and carved in the middle of it was an image of an eye. The entirebuilding sagged to the side, like a crooked tooth.“Oh!” said Sunny, and everyone knew what she meant. She meant, “What a terribleplace! I don’t want to live there at all!”“Well, it was nice to meet you,” Violet said to Justice Strauss.“Yes,” said Justice Strauss, gesturing to her flowerpot. “Perhaps one day you couldcome over and help me with my gardening.”“That would be very pleasant,” Violet said, very sadly. It would, of course, be verypleasant to help Justice Strauss with her gardening, but Violet could not help thinking thatit would be far more pleasant to live in Justice Strauss’s house, instead of Count Olaf’s.What kind of a man, Violet wondered, would carve an image of an eye into his front door?Mr. Poe tipped his hat to Justice Strauss, who smiled at the children and disappearedinto her lovely house. Klaus stepped forward and knocked on Count Olaf’s door, hisknuckles rapping right in the middle of the carved eye. There was a pause, and then thedoor creaked open and the children saw Count Olaf for the first time.“Hello hello hello,” Count Olaf said in a wheezy whisper. He was very tall and verythin, dressed in a gray suit that had many dark stains on it. His face was unshaven, andrather than two eyebrows, like most human beings have, he had just one long one. Hiseyes were very, very shiny, which made him look both hungry and angry. “Hello, mychildren. Please step into your new home, and wipe your feet outside so no mud getsindoors.”As they stepped into the house, Mr. Poe behind them, the Baudelaire orphans realizedwhat a ridiculous thing Count Olaf had just said. The room in which they foundthemselves was the dirtiest they had ever seen, and a little bit of mud from outdoorswouldn’t have made a bit of difference. Even by the dim light of the one bare lightbulbthat hung from the ceiling, the three children could see that everything in this room wasfilthy, from the stuffed head of a lion which was nailed to the wall to the bowl of applecores which sat on a small wooden table.Klaus willed himself not to cry as he looked around.“This room looks like it needs a little work,” Mr. Poe said, peering around in the gloom.“I realize that my humble home isn’t as fancy as the Baudelaire mansion,” Count Olafsaid, “but perhaps with a bit of your money we could fix it up a little nicer.”Mr. Poe’s eyes widened in surprise, and his coughs echoed in the dark room before hespoke. “The Baudelaire fortune,” he said sternly, “will not be used for such matters. Infact, it will not be used at all, until Violet is of age.”Count Olaf turned to Mr. Poe with a glint in his eye like an angry dog. For a momentViolet thought he was going to strike Mr. Poe across the face. But then he swallowed—the children could see his Adam’s apple bob in his skinny throat—and shrugged his patchyshoulders.“All right then,” he said. “It’s the same to me. Thank you very much, Mr. Poe, forbringing them here. Children, I will now show you to your room.”“Good-bye, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny,” Me. Poe said, stepping back through thefrontdoor. “I hope you will be very happy here. I will continue to see you occasionally,and you can always contact me at the bank if you have any questions.”“But we don’t even know where the bank is,” Klaus said.“I have a map of the city,” Count Olaf said. “Good-bye, Mr. Poe.”He leaned forward to shut the door, and the Baudelaire orphans were too overcome withdespair to get a last glimpse of Mr. Poe. They now wished they could all stay at the Poehousehold, even though it smelled. Rather than looking at the door, then, the orphanslooked down, and saw that although Count Olaf was wearing shoes, he wasn’t wearingany socks. They could see, in the space of pale skin between his tattered trouser cuff andhis black shoe, that Count Olaf had an image of an eye tattooed on his ankle, matching theeye on his front door. They wondered how many other eyes were in Count Olaf’s house,and whether, for the rest of their lives, they would always feel as though Count Olaf werewatching them even when he wasn’t nearby.C H A P T E RThreeI don’t know if you’ve ever noticed this, but first impressions are often entirely wrong.You can look at a painting for the first time, for example, and not like it at all, but afterlooking at it a little longer you may find it very pleasing. The first time you tryGorgonzola cheese you may find it too strong, but when you are older you may want toeat nothing but Gorgonzola cheese. Klaus, when Sunny was born, did not like her at all,but by the time she was six weeks old the two of them were thick as thieves. Your initialopinion on just about anything may change over time.I wish I could tell you that the Baudelaires first impressions of Count Olaf and hishouse were incorrect, as first impressions so often are. But these impressions—that CountOlaf was a horrible person, and his house a depressing pigsty—were absolutely correct.During the first few days after the orphans’ arrival at Count Olaf’s, Violet, Klaus, andSunny attempted to make themselves feel at home, but it was really no use. Even thoughCount Olaf’s house was quite large, the three children were placed together in one filthybedroom that had only one small bed in it. Violet and Klaus took turns sleeping in it, sothat every other night one of them was in the bed and the other was sleeping on the hardwooden floor, and the bed’s mattress was so lumpy it was difficult to say who was moreuncomfortable. To make a bed for Sunny, Violet removed the dusty curtains from thecurtain rod that hung over the bedroom’s one window and bunched them together to forma sort of cushion, just big enough for her sister. However, without curtains over thecracked glass, the sun streamed through the window every morning, so the children wokeup early and sore each day. Instead of a closet, there was a large cardboard box that hadonce held a refrigerator and would now hold the three children’s clothes, all piled in aheap. Instead of toys, books, or other things to amuse the youngsters, Count Olaf hadprovided a small pile of rocks. And the only decoration on the peeling walls was a largeand ugly painting of an eye, matching the one on Count Olaf’s ankle and all over thehouse.But the children knew, as I’m sure you know, that the worst surroundings in the worldcan be tolerated if the people in them are interesting and kind. Count Olaf wasneitherinteresting nor kind; he was demanding, short-tempered, and bad-smelling. The only goodthing to be said for Count Olaf is that he wasn’t around very often. When the childrenwoke up and chose their clothing out of the refrigerator box, they would walk into thekitchen and find a list of instructions left for them by Count Olaf, who would often notappear until nighttime. Most of the day he spent out of the house, or up in the high tower,where the children were forbidden to go. The instructions he left for them were usuallydifficult chores, such as repainting the back porch or repairing the windows, and instead ofa signature Count Olaf would draw an eye at the bottom of the note.One morning his note read, “My theater troupe will be coming for dinner beforetonight’s performance. Have dinner ready for all ten of them by the time they arrive atseven o’clock. Buy the food, prepare it, ser the table, serve dinner, clean up afterwards,and stay out of our way.” Below that there was the usual eye, and underneath the note wasa small sum of money for the groceries.Violet and Klaus read the note as they ate their breakfast, which was a gray and lumpyoatmeal Count Olaf left for them each morning in a large pot on the stove. Then theylooked at each other in dismay.“None of us knows how to cook,” Klaus said.“That’s true,” Violet said. “I knew how to repair those windows, and how to clean thechimney, because those sorts of things interest me. But I don’t know how to cook anythingexcept toast.”“And sometimes you burn the toast,” Klaus said, and they smiled. They were bothremembering a time when the two of them got up early to make a special breakfast fortheir parents. Violet had burned the toast, and their parents, smelling smoke, had rundownstairs to see what the matter was. When they saw Violet and Klaus, looking forlornlyat pieces of pitch-black toast, they laughed and laughed, and then made pancakes for thewhole family.“I wish they were here,” Violet said. She did not have to explain she was talking abouttheir parents. “They would never let us stay in this dreadful place.”“If they were here,” Klaus said, his voice rising as he got more and more upset, “wewould not be with Count Olaf in the first place. I hate it here, Violet! I hate this house! Ihate our room! I hate having to do all these chores, and I hate Count Olaf!”“I hate it too,” Violet said, and Klaus looked at his older sister with relief.Sometimes, just saying that you hate something, and having someone agree with you,can make you feel better about a terrible situation. “I hate everything about our lives rightnow, Klaus,” she said, “but we have to keep our chin up.” This was an expression thechildren’s father had used, and it meant “try to stay cheerful.”“You’re right,” Klaus said. “But it is very difficult to keep one’s chin up when CountOlaf keeps shoving it down.”“Jook!” Sunny shrieked, banging on the table with her oatmeal spoon. Violet and Klauswere jerked out of their conversation and looked once again at Count Olaf’s note.“Perhaps we could find a cookbook, and read about how to cook,” Klaus said. “Itshouldn’t be that difficult to make a simple meal.”Violet and Klaus spent several minutes opening and shutting Count Olaf’s kitchencupboards, but there weren’t any cookbooks to be found.“I can’t say I’m surprised,” Violet said. “We haven’t found any books in this house atall.”“I know,” Klaus said miserably. “I miss reading very much. We must go out and lookfor a library sometime soon.”“But not today,” Violet said. “Today we have to cook for ten people.”At that moment there was a knock on the front door. Violet and Klaus looked at oneanother nervously.“Who in the world would want to visit Count Olaf?” Violet wondered out loud.“Maybe somebody wants to visit us,” Klaus said, without much hope. In the time sincethe Baudelaire parents’ death, most of the Baudelaire orphans’ friends had fallen by thewayside, an expression which here means “they stopped calling, writing, and stopping byto see any of the Baudelaires, making them very lonely.” You and I, of course, wouldnever do this to any of our grieving acquaintances, but it is a sad truth in life that whensomeone has lost a loved one, friends sometimes avoid the person, just when the presenceof friends is most needed.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny walked slowly to the front door and peered through thepeephole, which was in the shape of an eye. They were delighted to see Justice Strausspeering back at them, and opened the door.“Justice Strauss!” Violet cried. “How lovely to see you.” She was about to add, “Docome in,” but then she realized that Justice Strauss would probably not want to ventureinto the dim and dirty room.“Please forgive me for not stopping by sooner,” Justice Strauss said, as the Baudelairesstood awkwardly in the doorway. “I wanted to see how you children were settling in, but Ihad a very difficult case in the High Court and it was taking up much of my time.”“What sort of case was it?” Klaus asked. Having been deprived of reading, he washungry for new information.“I can’t really discuss it,” Justice Strauss said, “because it’s official business. But I cantell you it concerns a poisonous plant and illegal use of someone’s credit card.”“Yeeka!” Sunny shrieked, which appeared to mean “How interesting!” although ofcourse there is no way that Sunny could understand what was being said.Justice Strauss looked down at Sunny and laughed. “Yeeka indeed,” she said, andreached down to par the child on the head. Sunny took Justice Strauss’s hand and bit it,gently.“That means she likes you,” Violet explained. “She bites very, very hard if she doesn’tlike you, or if you want to give her a bath.”“I see,” Justice Strauss said. “Now then, how are you children getting on? Is thereanything you desire?”The children looked at one another, thinking of all the things they desired. Another bed,for example. A proper crib for Sunny. Curtains for the window in their room. A closetinstead of a cardboard box. But what they desired most of all, of course, was not to beassociated with Count Olaf in any way whatsoever. What they desired most was to be withtheir parents again, in their true home, but that, of course, was impossible. Violet, Klaus,and Sunny all looked down at the floor unhappily as they considered the question. Finally,Klaus spoke.“Could we perhaps borrow a cookbook?” he said. “Count Olaf has instructed us tomake dinner for his theater troupe tonight, and we can’t find a cookbook in the house.”“Goodness,” Justice Strauss said. “Cooking dinner for an entire theater troupe seemslike a lot to ask of children.”“Count Olaf gives us a lot of responsibility,” Violet said. What she wanted to say was,“Count Olaf is an evil man,” but she was well mannered.“Well, why don’t you come next door to my house,” Justice Strauss said, “and find acookbook that pleases you?”The youngsters agreed, and followed Justice Strauss out the door and over to her wellkept house. She led them through an elegant hallway smelling of flowers into an enormousroom, and when they saw what was inside, they nearly fainted from delight, Klausespecially.The room was a library. Not a public library, but a private library; that is, a largecollection of books belonging to Justice Strauss. There were shelves and shelves of them,on every wall from the floor to the ceiling, and separate shelves and shelves of them in themiddle of the room. The only place there weren’t books was in one comer, where therewere some large, comfortable-looking chairs and a wooden table with lamps hanging overthem, perfect for reading. Although it was not as big as their parents’ library, it was ascozy, and the Baudelaire children were thrilled.“My word!” Violet said. “This is a wonderful library!”“Thank you very much,” Justice Strauss said. “I’ve been collecting books for years, andI’m very proud of my collection. As long as you keep them in good condition, you arewelcome to use any of my books, at any time. Now, the cook-books are over here on theeastern wall. Shall we have a look at them?”“Yes,” Violet said, “and then, if you don’t mind, I should lave to look at any of yourbooks concerning mechanical engineering. Inventing things is a great interest of mine.”“And I would like to look at books on wolves,” Klaus said. “Recently I have beenfascinated by the subject of wild animals of North America.”“Book!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Please don’t forget to pick out a picture bookfor me.”Justice Strauss smiled. “It is a pleasure to see young people interested in books,” shesaid. “But first I think we’d better find a good recipe, don’t you?”The children agreed, and for thirty minutes or so they perused several cookbooks thatJustice Strauss recommended. To tell you the truth, the three orphans were so excited to beout of Count Olaf’s house, and in this pleasant library, that they were a little distracted andunable to concentrate on cooking. But finally Klaus found a dish that sounded delicious,and easy to make.“Listen to this,” he said. “‘Puttanesca.’ It’s an Italian sauce for pasta. All we need to dois sauté olives, capers, anchovies, garlic, chopped parsley, and tomatoes together in a pot,and prepare spaghetti to go with it.”“That sounds easy,” Violet agreed, and the Baudelaire orphans looked at one another.Perhaps, with the kind Justice Strauss and her library right next door, the children couldprepare pleasant lives for themselves as easily as making puttanesca sauce for Count Olaf.varieties and choosing their favorites. At a pasta store they selected interestinglyshaped noodles and asked the woman running the store the proper amount for thirteenpeople— the ten people Count Olaf mentioned, and the three of them. Then, at thesupermarket, they purchased garlic, which is a sharp-tasting bulbous plant; anchovies,which are small salty fish; capers, which are flower buds of a small shrub and tastemarvelous; and tomatoes, which are actually fruits and not vegetables as most peoplebelieve. They thought it would be proper to serve dessert, and bought several envelopes ofpudding mix. Perhaps, the orphans thought, if they made a delicious meal, Count Olafmight be a bit kinder to them.“Thank you so much for helping us out today,” Violet said, as she and her siblingswalked home with Justice Strauss. “I don’t know what we would have done without you.”“You seem like very intelligent people,” Justice Strauss said. “I daresay you would havethought of something. But it continues to strike me as odd that Count Olaf has asked youto prepare such an enormous meal. Well, here we are. I must go inside and put my owngroceries away. I hope you children will come over soon and borrow books from mylibrary.”“Tomorrow?” Klaus said quickly. “Could we come over tomorrow?”“I don’t see why not,” Justice Strauss said, smiling.“I can’t tell you how much we appreciate this,” Violet said, carefully. With their kindparents dead and Count Olaf treating them so abominably, the three children were not usedto kindness from adults, and weren’t sure if they were expected to do anything back.“Tomorrow, before we use your library again, Klaus and I would be more than happy to dohousehold chores for you. Sunny isn’t really old enough to work, but I’m sure we couldfind some way she could help you.”Justice Strauss smiled at the three children, but her eyes were sad. She reached out ahand and put it on Violet’s hair, and Violet felt more comforted than she had in some time.“That won’t be necessary,” Justice Strauss said. “You are always welcome in my home.”Then she turned and went into her home, and after a moment of staring after her, theBaudelaire orphans went into theirs.For most of the afternoon, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny cooked the puttanesca sauceaccording to the recipe. Violet roasted the garlic and washed and chopped the anchovies.Klaus peeled the tomatoes and pitted the olives. Sunny banged on a pot with a woodenspoon, singing a rather repetitive song she had written herself. And all three of thechildren felt less miserable than they had since their arrival at Count Olaf’s. The smell ofcooking food is often a calming one, and the kitchen grew cozy as the sauce simmered, aculinary term which means “cooked over low heat.” The three orphans spoke of pleasantmemories of their parents and about Justice Strauss, who they agreed was a wonderfulneighbor and in whose library they planned to spend a great deal of time. As they talked,they mixed and tasted the chocolate pudding.Just as they were placing the pudding in the refrigerator to cool, Violet, Klaus, andSunny heard a loud, booming sound as the front door was flung open, and I’m sure I don’thave to tell you who was home.“Orphans?” Count Olaf called out in his scratchy voice. “Where are you, orphans?”“In the kitchen, Count Olaf,” Klaus called. “We’re just finishing dinner.”“You’d better be,” Count Olaf said, and strode into the kitchen. He gazed at all threeBaudelaire children with his shiny, shiny eyes. “My troupe is right behind me and they arevery hungry. Where is the roast beef?”“We didn’t make roast beef,” Violet said. “We made puttanesca sauce.”“What?” Count Olaf asked. “No roast beef?”“You didn’t tell us you wanted roast beef,” Klaus said.Count Olaf slid toward the children so that he looked even taller than he was. His eyesgrew even brighter, and his one eyebrow raised in anger. “In agreeing to adopt you,” hesaid, “I have become your father, and as your father I am not someone to be trifled with. Idemand that you serve roast beef to myself and my guests. ”“We don’t have any!” Violet cried. “We made puttanesca sauce!”“No! No! No!” Sunny shouted.Count Olaf looked down at Sunny, who had spoken so suddenly. With an inhuman roarhe picked her up in one scraggly hand and raised her so she was staring at him in the eye.Needless to say, Sunny was very frightened and began crying immediately, too scared toeven try to bite the hand that held her.“Put her down immediately, you beast!” Klaus shouted. He jumped up, trying to rescueSunny from the grasp of the Count, but he was holding her too high to reach. Count Olaflooked down at Klaus and smiled a terrible, toothy grin, raising the wailing Sunny up evenhigher in the air. He seemed about to drop her to the floor when there was a large burst oflaughter in the next room.“Olaf! Where’s Olaf?” voices called out Count Olaf paused, still holding the wailingSunny up in the air, as members of his theater troupe walked into the kitchen. Soon theywere crowding the room—an assortment of strange-looking characters of all shapes andsizes. There was a bald man with a very long nose, dressed in a long black robe. Therewere two women who had bright white powder all over their faces, making them look likeghosts. Behind the women was a man with very long and skinny arms, at the end of whichwere two hooks instead of hands. There was a person who was extremely fat, and wholooked like neither a man nor a woman. And behind this person, standing in the doorway,were an assortment of people the children could not see but who promised tobe just asfrightening.“Here you are, Olaf,” said one of the white faced women. “What in the world are youdoing?”“I’m just disciplining these orphans,” Count Olaf said. “I asked them to make dinner,and all they have made is some disgusting sauce.”“You can’t go easy on children,” the man with the hook-hands said. “They must betaught to obey their elders.”The tall, bald man peered at the youngsters. “Are these,” he said to Count Olaf, “thosewealthy children you were telling me about?”“Yes,” Count Olaf said. “They are so awful I can scarcely stand to touch them.” Withthat, he lowered Sunny, who was still wailing, to the floor. Violet and Klaus breathed asigh of relief that he had not dropped her from that great height.“I don’t blame you,” said someone in the doorway.Count Olaf rubbed his hands together as if he had been holding something revoltinginstead of an infant. “Well, enough talk,” he said. “I suppose we will eat their dinner, eventhough it is all wrong. Everyone, follow me to the dining room and I will pour us somewine. Perhaps by the time these brats serve us, we will be too drunk to care if it is roastbeef or not.”“Hurrah!” cried several members of the troupe, and they marched through the kitchen,following Count Olaf into the dining room.Nobody paid a bit of attention to the children, except for the bald man, who stopped andstared Violet in the eye.“You’re a pretty one,” he said, taking her face in his rough hands. “If I were you Iwould try not to anger Count Olaf, or he might wreck that pretty little face of yours.”Violet shuddered, and the bald man gave a high-pitched giggle and left the room.The Baudelaire children, alone in the kitchen, found themselves breathing heavily, as ifthey had just run a long distance. Sunny continued to wail, and Klaus found that his eyeswere wet with tears as well. Only Violet didn’t cry, but merely trembled with fear andrevulsion, a word which here means “an unpleasant mixture of horror and disgust.” Forseveral moments none of them could speak.“This is terrible, terrible,” Klaus said finally. “Violet, what can we do?”“I don’t know,” she said “I’m afraid.”“Me too,” Klaus said.“Hux!” Sunny said, as she stopped crying.“Let’s have some dinner!” someone shouted from the dining room, and the theatertroupe began pounding on the table in strict rhythm, which is an exceedingly rude thing todo.“We’d better serve the puttanesca,” Klaus said, “or who knows what Count Olaf will doto us.”Violet thought of what the bald man had said, about wrecking her face, and nodded.The two of them looked at the pot of bubbling sauce, which had seemed so cozy whilethey were making it and now looked like a vat of blood. Then, leaving Sunny behind inthe kitchen, they walked into the dining room, Klaus carrying a bowl of the interestinglyshaped noodles and Violet carrying the pot of puttanesca sauce and a large ladle withwhich to serve it. The theater troupe was talking and cackling, drinking again and againfrom their wine cups and paying no attention to the Baudelaire orphans as they circled thetable serving everyone dinner. Violet’s right hand ached from holding the heavy ladle. Shethought of switching to her left hand, but because she was right-handed she was afraid shemight spill the sauce with her left hand, which could enrage Count Olaf again. She staredmiserably at Olaf’s plate of food and found herself wishing she had bought poison at themarket and put it in the puttanesca sauce. Finally, they were through serving, and Klausand Violet slipped back into the kitchen. They listened to the wild, rough laughter ofCount Olaf and his theater troupe, and they picked at their own portions of food, toomiserable to eat. Before long, Olaf’s friends were pounding on the table in strict rhythmagain, and the orphans went out to the dining room to clear the table, and then again toserve the chocolate pudding. By now it was obvious that Count Olaf and his associateshad drunk a great deal of wine, and they slouched at the table and spoke much less.Finally, they roused themselves, and trooped back through the kitchen, scarcely glancingat the children on their way out of the house. Count Olaf looked around the room, whichwas filled with dirty dishes.“Because you haven’t cleaned up yet,” he said to the orphans, “I suppose you can beexcused from attending tonight’s performance. But after cleaning up, you are to go straightto your beds.”Klaus had been glaring at the floor, trying to hide how upset he was. But at this hecould not remain silent. “You mean our bed!” he shouted. “You have only provided uswith one bed!”Members of the theater troupe stopped in their tracks at this outburst, and glanced fromKlaus to Count Olaf to see what would happen next. Count Olaf raised his one eyebrow,and his eyes shone bright, but he spoke calmly.“If you would like another bed,” he said, “tomorrow you may go into town andpurchase one. ”“You know perfectly well we haven’t any money,” Klaus said.“Of course you do,” Count Olaf said, and his voice began to get a little louder. “You arethe inheritors of an enormous fortune.”“That money,” Klaus said, remembering what Mr. Poe said, “is not to be used untilViolet is of age.”Count Olaf’s face grew very red. For a moment he said nothing. Then, in one suddenmovement, he reached down and struck Klaus across the face. Klaus fell to the floor, hisface inches from the eye tattooed on Olaf’s ankle. His glasses leaped from his face andskittered into a comer. His left cheek, where Olaf had struck him, felt as if it were on fire.The theater troupe laughed, and a few of them applauded as if Count Olaf had donesomething very brave instead of something despicable.“Come on, friends,” Count Olaf said to his comrades. “We’ll be late for our ownperformance. ”“If I know you, Olaf,” said the man with the hook-hands, “you’ll figure out a way to getat that Baudelaire money.”“We’ll see,” Count Olaf said, but his eyes were shining bright as if he already had anidea. There was another loud boom as the front door shut behind Count Olaf and histerrible friends, and the Baudelaire children were alone in the kitchen. Violet knelt atKlaus’s side, giving him a hug to try to make him feel better. Sunny crawled over to hisglasses, picked them up, and brought them to him. Klaus began to sob, not so much fromthe pain but from rage at the terrible situation they were in. Violet and Sunny cried withhim, and they continued weeping as they washed the dishes, and as they blew out thecandles in the dining room, and as they changed out of their clothes and lay down to go tosleep, Klaus in the bed, Violet on the floor, Sunny on her little cushion of curtains. Themoonlight shone through the window, and if anyone had looked into the Baudelaireorphans’ bedroom, they would have seen three children crying quietly all night long.C H A P T E RFiveUnless you have been very, very lucky, you have undoubtedly experienced events inyour life that have made you cry. So unless you have been very, very lucky, you know thata good, long session of weeping can often make you feel better, even if yourcircumstances have not changed one bit. So it was with the Baudelaire orphans. Havingcried all night, they rose the next morning feeling as if a weight were off their shoulders.The three children knew, of course, that they were still in a terrible situation, but theythought they might do something to make it better.The morning’s note from Count Olaf ordered them to chop firewood in the backyard,and as Violet and Klaus swung the axe down over each log to break it into smaller pieces,they discussed possible plans of action, while Sunny chewed meditatively on a small pieceof wood.“Clearly,” Klaus said, fingering the ugly bruise on his face where Olaf had struck him,“we cannot stay here any longer. I would rather take my chances on the streets than live inthis terrible place.”“But who knows what misfortunes would befall us on the streets?” Violet pointed out“At least here we have a roof over our heads.”“I wish our parents’ money could be used now, instead of when you come of age,”Klaus said. “Then we could buy a castle and live in it, with armed guards patrolling theoutside to keep out Count Olaf and his troupe.”“And I could have a large inventing studio,” Violet said wistfully. She swung the axedown and split a log neatly in two. “Filled with gears and pulleys and wires and anelaborate computer system.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 1- TheBad Beginning“And I could have a large library,” Klaus said, “as comfortable as Justice Strauss’s, butmore enormous.”“Gibbo!” Sunny shrieked, which appeared to mean “And I could have lots of things tobite. ”“But in the meantime,” Violet said, “we have to do something about ourpredicament .”“Perhaps Justice Strauss could adopt us,” Klaus said. “She said we were alwayswelcome in her home.”“But she meant for a visit, or to use her library,” Violet pointed out “She didn’t mean tolive.”“Perhaps if we explained our situation to her, she would agree to adopt us,” Klaus saidhopefully, but when Violet looked at him she saw that he knew it was of no use. Adoptionis an enormous decision, and not likely to happen impulsively. I’m sure you, in your life,have occasionally wished to be raised by different people than the ones who are raisingyou, but knew in your heart that the chances of this were very slim.“I think we should go see Mr. Poe,” Violet said. “He told us when he dropped us herethat we could contact him at the bank if we had any questions.”“We don’t really have a question,” Klaus said. “We have a complaint.” He was thinkingof Mr. Poe walking toward them at Briny Beach , with his terrible message. Even thoughthe fire was of course not Mr. Poe’s fault, Klaus was reluctant to see Mr. Poe because hewas afraid of getting more bad news.“I can’t think of anyone else to contact,” Violet said. “Mr. Poe is in charge of ouraffairs, and I’m sure if he knew how horrid Count Olaf is, he would take us right out ofhere.”Klaus pictured Mr. Poe arriving in his car and putting the Baudelaire orphans inside, togo somewhere else, and felt a stirring of hope. Anywhere would be better than here.“Okay,” he said. “Let’s get this firewood all chopped and we’ll go to the bank.”Invigorated by their plan, the Baudelaire orphans swung their axes at an amazing speed,and soon enough they were done chopping firewood and ready to go to the bank. Theyremembered Count Olaf saying he had a map of the city, and they looked thoroughly forit, but they couldn’t find any trace of a map, and decided it must be in the tower, wherethey were forbidden to go. So, without directions of any sort, the Baudelaire children seroff for the city’s banking district in hopes of finding Mr. Poe.After walking through the meat district, the flower district, and the sculpture district,the three children arrived at the banking district, pausing to take a refreshing sip of waterat the Fountain of Victorious Finance. The banking district consisted of several widestreets with large marble buildings on each side of them, all banks. They went first toTrustworthy Bank, and then to Faithful Savings and Loan, and then to SubservientFinancial Services, each time inquiring for Mr. Poe. Finally, a receptionist at Subservientsaid she knew that Mr. Poe worked down the street, at Mulctuary Money Management.The building was square and rather plain-looking, though once inside, the three orphanswere intimidated by the hustle and bustle of the people as they raced around the large,echoey room. Finally, they asked a uniformed guard whether they hadarrived at the rightplace to speak to Mr. Poe, and he led them into a large office with many file cabinets andno windows.“Why, hello,” said Mr. Poe, in a puzzled tone of voice. He was sitting at a desk coveredin typed papers that looked important and boring. Surrounding a small framed photographof his wife and his two beastly sons were three telephones with flashing lights. “Pleasecome in.”“Thank you,” said Klaus, shaking Mr. Poe’s hand. The Baudelaire youngsters sat downin three large and comfortable chairs.Mr. Poe opened his mouth to speak, but had to cough into a handkerchief before hecould begin. “I’m very busy today,” he said, finally. “So I don’t have too much time tochat . Next time you should call ahead of time when you plan on being in theneighborhood , and I will put some time aside to take you to lunch.”“That would be very pleasant,” Violet said, “and we’re sorry we didn’t contact youbefore we stopped by, but we find ourselves in an urgent situation.”“Count Olaf is a madman,” Klaus said, getting right to the point. “We cannot stay withhim.”“He struck Klaus across the face. See his bruise?” Violet said, but just as she said it, oneof the telephones rang, in a loud, unpleasant wail. “Excuse me,” Mr. Poe said, and pickedup the phone. “Poe here,” he said into the receiver. “What? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes.Thank you.” He hung up the phone and looked at the Baudelaires as if he had forgottenthey were there.“I’m sorry,” Mr. Poe said, “what were we talking about? Oh, yes, Count Olaf. I’m sorryyou don’t have a good first impression of him.”“He has only provided us with one bed,” Klaus said.“He makes us do a great many difficult chores. ”“He drinks too much wine.”“Excuse me,” Mr. Poe said, as another telephone rang. “Poe here,” he said. “Seven.Seven. Seven. Seven. Six and a half. Seven. You’re welcome.” He hung up and quicklywrote something down on one of his papers, then looked at the children. “I’m sorry,” hesaid, “what were you saying about Count Olaf? Making you do chores doesn’t sound toobad.”“He calls us orphans.”“He has terrible friends.”“He is always asking about our money.”“Poko!” (This was from Sunny.)Mr. Poe put up his hands to indicate he had heard enough. “Children, children,” he said.“You must give yourselves time to adjust to your new home. You’ve only been there a fewdays.”“We have been there long enough to know Count Olaf is a bad man,” Klaus said.Mr. Poe sighed, and looked at each of the three children. His face was kind, but it didn’tlook like he really believed what the Baudelaire orphans were saying. “Are you familiarwith the Latin term ‘in loco parentis’?” he asked.Violet and Sunny looked at Klaus. The biggest reader of the three, he was the mostlikely to know vocabulary words and foreign phrases. “Something about trains?” he asked.Maybe Mr. Poe was going to take them by train to another relative.Mr. Poe shook his head. “‘In loco parentis’ means ‘acting in the role of parent,’” hesaid. “It is a legal term and it applies to Count Olaf. Now that you are in his care, theCount may raise you using any methods he sees fit. I’m sorry if your parents did not makeyou do any household chores, or if you never saw them drink any wine, or if you like theirfriends better than Count Olaf’s friends, but these are things that you must get used to, asCount Olaf is acting in loco parentis. Understand?”“But he struck my brother!” Violet said. “Look at his face!”As Violet spoke, Mr. Poe reached into his pocket for his handkerchief and, covering hismouth, coughed many, many times into it. He coughed so loudly that Violet could not becertain he had heard her.“Whatever Count Olaf has done,” Mr. Poe said, glancing down at one of his papers andcircling a number, “he has acted in loco parentis, and there’s nothing I can do about it.Your money will be well protected by myself and by the bank, but Count Olaf’s parentingtechniques are his own business. Now, I hate to usher you out posthaste, but I have verymuch work to do.”The children just sat there, stunned. Mr. Poe looked up, and cleared his throat.“‘Posthaste,’” he said, “means—”“—means you’ll do nothing to help us,” Violet finished for him. She was shaking withanger and frustration. As one of the phones began ringing, she stood up and walked out ofthe room, followed by Klaus, who was carrying Sunny. They stalked out of the bank andstood on the street, not knowing what to do next.“What shall we do next?” Klaus asked sadly.Violet stared up at the sky. She wished she could invent something that could take themout of there. “It’s getting a bit late,” she said. “We might as well just go back and think ofsomething else tomorrow. Perhaps we can stop and see Justice Strauss.”“But you said she wouldn’t help us,” Klaus said.“Not for help,” Violet said, “for books.”It is very useful, when one is young, to learn the difference between “literally” and“figuratively.” If something happens literally, it actually happens; if something happensfiguratively, it feels like it’s happening. If you are literally jumping for joy, for instance, itmeans you are leaping in the air because you are very happy. If you are figurativelyjumping for joy, it means you are so happy that you could jump for joy, but are savingyour energy for other matters. The Baudelaire orphans walked back to Count Olaf’sneighborhood and stopped at the home of Justice Strauss, who welcomed them inside andlet them choose books from the library. Violet chose several about mechanical inventions,Klaus chose several about wolves, and Sunny found a book with many pictures of teethinside. They then went to their room and crowded together on the one bed, readingintently and happily. Figuratively, they escaped from Count Olaf and their miserableexistence. They did not literally escape, because they were still in his house andvulnerable to Olaf’s evil in loco parentis ways. But by immersing themselves in theirfavorite reading topics, they felt far away from their predicament, as if they had escaped.In the situation of the orphans, figuratively escaping was not enough, of course, but at theend of a tiring and hopeless day, it would have to do. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny read theirbooks and, in the back of their minds, hoped that soon their figurative escape wouldeventually turn into a literal one.The next morning, when the children stumbled sleepily from their bedroom into thekitchen, rather than a note from Count Olaf they found Count Olaf himself.“Good morning, orphans,” he said. “I have your oatmeal all ready in bowls for you.”The children took seats at the kitchen table and stared nervously into their oatmeal. Ifyou knew Count Olaf, and he suddenly served you a meal, wouldn’t you be afraid therewas something terrible in it, like poison or ground glass? But instead, Violet, Klaus, andSunny found that fresh raspberries had been sprinkled on top of each of their portions. TheBaudelaire orphans hadn’t had raspberries since their parents died, although they wereextremely fond of them.“Thank you,” Klaus said, carefully, picking up one of the raspberries and examining it.Perhaps these were poison berries that just looked like delicious ones. Count Olaf, seeinghow suspiciously Klaus was looking at the berries, smiled and plucked a berry out ofSunny’s bowl. Looking at each of the three youngsters, he popped it into his mouth andate it.“Aren’t raspberries delicious?” he asked. “They were my favorite berries when I wasyour age.”Violet tried to picture Count Olaf as a youngster, but couldn’t. His shiny eyes, bonyhands, and shadowy smile all seemed to be things only adults possess. Despite her fear ofhim, however, she took her spoon in her right hand and began to eat her oatmeal. CountOlaf had eaten some, so it probably wasn’t poisonous, and anyway she was very hungry.Klaus began to eat, too, as did Sunny, who got oatmeal and raspberries all over her face.“I received a phone call yesterday,” Count Olaf said, “from Mr. Poe. He told me youchildren had been to see him.”The children exchanged glances. They had hoped their visit would be taken inconfidence, a phrase which here means “kept a secret between Mr. Poe and themselvesand not blabbed to Count Olaf.”“Mr. Poe told me,” Count Olaf said, “that you appeared to be having some difficultyadjusting to the life I have so graciously provided for you. I’m very sorry to hear that.”The children looked at Count Olaf. His face was very serious, as if he were very sorryto hear that, but his eyes were shiny and bright, the way they are when someone is tellinga joke.“Is that so?” Violet said. “I’m sorry Mr. Poe bothered you.”“I’m glad he did,” Count Olaf said, “because I want the three of you to feel at homehere, now that I am your father.”The children shuddered a little at that, remembering their own kind father and gazingsadly at the poor substitute now sitting across the table from them.“Lately,” Count Olaf said, “I have been very nervous about my performances with thetheater troupe, and I’m afraid I mar have acted a bit standoffish.”The word “standoffish” is a wonderful one, but it does not describe Count Olaf’sbehavior toward the children. It means “reluctant to associate with others,” and it mightdescribe somebody who, during a party, would stand in a comer and not talk to anyone. Itwould not describe somebody who provides one bed for three people to sleep in, forcesthem to do horrible chores, and strikes them across the face. There are many words forpeople like that, but “standoffish” is not one of them. Klaus knew the word “standoffish”and almost laughed out loud at Olaf’s incorrect use of it. But his face still had a bruise onit, so Klaus remained silent.“Therefore, to make you feel a little more at home here, I would like to have youparticipate in my next play. Perhaps if you took part in the work I do, you would be lesslikely to run off complaining to Mr. Poe.”“In what way would we participate?” Violet asked. She was thinking of all the choresthey already did for Count Olaf, and was not in the mood to do more.“Well,” Count Olaf said, his eyes shining brightly, “the play is called The MarvelousMarriage, and it is written by the great playwright Al Funcoot. We will give only oneperformance, on this Friday night. it is about a man who is very brave and intelligent,played by me. In the finale, he marries the young, beautiful woman he loves, in front of acrowd of cheering people. You, Klaus, and you, Sunny, will play some of the cheeringpeople in the crowd. ”“But we’re shorter than most adults,” Klaus said. “Won’t that look strange to theaudience?”“You will be playing two midgets who attend the wedding,” Olaf said patiently.“And what will I do?” Violet asked. “I am very handy with tools, so perhaps I couldhelp you build the set.”“Build the set? Heavens, no,” Count Olaf said. “A pretty girl like you shouldn’t beworking backstage.”“But I’d like to,” Violet said.Count Olaf’s one eyebrow raised slightly, and the Baudelaire orphans recognized thissign of his anger. But then the eyebrow went down again as he forced himself to remaincalm. “But I have such an important role for you onstage,” he said. “You are going to playthe young woman I marry.”Violet felt her oatmeal and raspberries shift around in her stomach as if she had justcaught the flu. It was bad enough having Count Olaf acting in loco parentis andannouncing himself as their father, but to consider this man her husband, even for thepurposes of a play, was even more dreadful.“It’s a very important role,” he continued, his mouth curling up into an unconvincingsmile, “although you have no lines other than ‘I do,’ which you will say when JusticeStrauss asks you if you will have me.”“Justice Strauss?” Violet said. “What does she have to do with it?”“She has agreed to play the part of the judge,” Count Olaf said. Behind him, one of theeyes painted on the kitchen walls closely watched over each of the Baudelaire children. “Iasked Justice Strauss to participate because I wanted to be neighborly, as well as fatherly.”“Count Olaf,”_ Violet said, and then stopped herself. She wanted to argue her way outof playing his bride, but she didn’t want to make him angry. “Father,” she said, “I’m notsure I’m talented enough to perform professionally. I would hate to disgrace your goodname and the name of Al Funcoot. Plus I’ll be very busy in the next few weeks workingon my inventions—and learning how to prepare roast beef,” she added quickly,remembering how he had behaved about dinner.Count Olaf reached out one of his spidery hands and stroked Violet on the chin, lookingdeep into her eyes. “You will, ” he said, “participate in this theatrical performance. I wouldprefer it if you would participate voluntarily, but as I believe Mr. Poe explained to you, Ican order you to participate and you must obey. ” Olaf’s sharp and dirty fingernails gentlyscratched on Violet’s chin, and she shivered. The room was very, very quiet as Olaf finallylet go, and stood up and left without a word. The Baudelaire children listened to his heavyfootsteps go up the stairs to the tower they were forbidden to enter.“Well,” Klaus said hesitantly, “I guess it won’t hurt to be in the play. It seems to be veryimportant to him, and we want to keep on his good side.”“But he must be up to something,” Violet said.“You don’t think those berries were poisoned, do you?” Klaus asked worriedly.“No,” Violet said. “Olaf is after the fortune we will inherit. Killing us would do him nogood.”“But what good does it do him to have us be in his stupid play?”“I don’t know,” Violet admitted miserably. She stood up and started washing out theoatmeal bowls.“I wish we knew something more about inheritance law,” Klaus said. “I’ll bet CountOlaf has cooked up some plan to get our money, but I don’t know what it could be.”“I guess we could ask Mr. Poe about it,” Violet said doubtfully, as Klaus stood besideher and dried the dishes. “He knows all those Latin legal phrases.”“But Mr. Poe would probably call Count Olaf again, and then he’d know we were on tohim,” Klaus pointed out “Maybe we should try to talk to Justice Strauss. She’s a judge, soshe must know all about the law.”“But she’s also Olaf’s neighbor,” Violet replied, “and she might tell him that we hadasked. ”Klaus took his glasses off, which he often did when he was thinking hard. “How couldwe find out about the law without Olaf’s knowledge?”“Book!” Sunny shouted suddenly. She probably meant something like “Wouldsomebody please wipe my face?” but it made Violet and Klaus look at each other. Book.They were both thinking the same thing: Surely Justice Strauss would have a book oninheritance law.“Count Olaf didn’t leave us any chores to do,” Violet said, “so I suppose we are free tovisit Justice Strauss and her library.”Klaus smiled. “Yes indeed,” he said. “And you know, today I don’t think I’ll choose abook on wolves.”“Nor I,” Violet said, “on mechanical engineering. I think I’d like to read aboutinheritance law.”“Well, let’s go,” Klaus said. “Justice Strauss said we could come over soon, and wedon’t want to be standoffish. ”At the mention of the word that Count Olaf had used so ridiculously, the Baudelaireorphans all laughed, even Sunny, who of course did not have a very big vocabulary.Swiftly they put away the clean oatmeal bowls in the kitchen cupboards, which watchedthem with painted eyes. Then the three young people ran next door. Friday, the day of theperformance, was only a few days off, and the children wanted to figure out Count Olaf’splan as quickly as possible.There are many, many types of books in the world, which makes good sense, becausethere are many, many types of people, and everybody wants to read something different.For instance, people who hate stories in which terrible things happen to small childrenshould put this book down immediately. But one type of book that practically no one likesto read is a book about the law. Books about the law are notorious for being very long,very dull, and very difficult to read. This is one reason many lawyers make heaps ofmoney. The money is an incentive—the word “incentive” here means “an offered rewardto persuade you to do something you don’t want to do”—to read long, dull, and difficultbooks.The Baudelaire children had a slightly different incentive for reading these books, ofcourse. Their incentive was not heaps of money, but preventing Count Olaf from doingsomething horrible to them in order to get heaps of money. But even with this incentive,getting through the law books in Justice Strauss’s private library was a very, very, veryhard task.“Goodness,” Justice Strauss said, when she came into the library and saw what theywere reading. She had let them in the house but immediately went into the backyard to doher gardening, leaving the Baudelaire orphans alone in her glorious library. “I thought youwere interested in mechanical engineering, animals of North America, and teeth. Are yousure you want to read those enormous law books? Even I don’t like reading them, and Iwork in law.”“Yes,” Violet lied, “I find them very interesting, Justice Strauss.”“So do I,” Klaus said. “Violet and I are considering a career in law, so we are fascinatedby these books.”“Well,” Justice Strauss said, “Sunny can’t possibly be interested. Maybe she’d liketocome help me with the gardening.”“Wipi!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “I’d much prefer gardening to sitting aroundwatching my siblings struggle through law books.”“Well, make sure she doesn’t eat any dirt,” Klaus said, bringing Sunny over to thejudge.“Of course,” said Justice Strauss. “We wouldn’t want her to be sick for the bigperformance.”Violet and Klaus exchanged a look. “Are you excited about the play?” Violet askedhesitantly.Justice Strauss’s face lit up. “Oh yes,” she said. “I’ve always wanted to performonstage, ever since I was a little girl. And now Count Olaf has given me the opportunity tolive my lifelong dream. Aren’t you thrilled to be a pare of the theater?”“I guess so,” Violet said.“Of course you are,” Judge Strauss said, stars in her eyes and Sunny in her hands. Sheleft the library and Klaus and Violet looked at each other and sighed.“She’s stagestruck,” Klaus said. “She won’t believe that Count Olaf is up to something,no matter what.”“She wouldn’t help us anyway,” Violet pointed out glumly. “She’s a judge, and she’djust start babbling about in loco parentis like Me. Poe.”“That’s why we’ve got to find a legal reason to stop the performance,” Klaus saidfirmly. “Have you found anything in your book yet?”“Nothing helpful,” Violet said, glancing down at a piece of scrap paper on which shehad been taking notes. “Fifty years ago there was a woman who left an enormous sum ofmoney to her pet weasel, and none to her three sons. The three sons tried to prove that thewoman was insane so the money would go to them.”“What happened?” Klaus asked.“I think the weasel died,” Violet replied, “but I’m not sure. I have to look up some ofthe words. ”“I don’t think it’s going to help us anyway,” Klaus said.“Maybe Count Olaf is trying to prove that we’re insane, so he’d get the money,” Violetsaid.“But why would making us be in The Marvelous Marriage prove we were insane?”Klaus asked.“I don’t know,” Violet admitted. “I’m stuck. Have you found anything?”“Around the time of your weasel lady,” Klaus said, flipping through the enormous bookhe had been reading, “a group of actors put on a production of Shakespeare’s Macbeth,and none of them wore any clothing.”Violet blushed. “You mean they were all naked, onstage?”“Only briefly,” Klaus said, smiling. “The police came and shut down the production. Idon’t think that’s very helpful, either. It was just pretty interesting to read about.”Violet sighed. “Maybe Count Olaf isn’t up to anything,” she said. “I’m not interested inperforming in his play, but perhaps we’re all worked up about nothing. Maybe Count Olafreally is just trying to welcome us into the family.”“How can you say that?” Klaus cried. “He struck me across the face.”“But there’s no way he can get hold of our fortune just by putting us in a play,” Violetsaid. “My eyes are tired from reading these books, Klaus, and they aren’t helping us. I’mgoing to go out and help Justice Strauss in the garden.”Klaus watched his sister leave the library and felt a wave of hopelessness wash overhim. The day of the performance was not far off, and he hadn’t even figured out whatCount Olaf was up to, let alone how to stop him. all his life, Klaus had believed that if youread enough books you could solve any problem, but now he wasn’t so sure.“You there!” A voice coming from the doorway startled Klaus out of his thoughts.“Count Olaf sent me to look for you. You are to return to the house immediately.”Klaus turned and saw one of the members of Count Olaf’s theater troupe, the one withhooks for hands, standing in the doorway. “What are you doing in this musty old room,anyway?” he asked in his croak of a voice, walking over to where Klaus was sitting.Narrowing his beady eyes, he read the title of one of the books. “Inheritance Law and ItsImplications?” he said sharply. “Why are you reading that?”“Why do you think I’m reading it?” Klaus said.“I’ll tell you what I think.” The man put one of his terrible hooks on Klaus’s shoulder.“I think you should never be allowed inside this library again, at least until Friday. Wedon’t want a little boy getting big ideas. Now, where is your sister and that hideous baby?”“In the garden,” Klaus said, shrugging the hook off of his shoulder. “Why don’t you goand get them?”The man leaned over until his face was just inches from Klaus’s, so close that the man’sfeatures flickered into a blur. “Listen to me very carefully, little boy,” he said, breathingout foul steam with every word. “The only reason Count Olaf hasn’t torn you limb fromlimb is that he hasn’t gotten hold of your money. He allows you to live while he works outhis plans. But ask yourself this, you little bookworm: What reason will he have to keepyou alive after he has your money? What do you think will happen to you then?”Klaus felt an icy chill go through him as the horrible man spoke. He had never been soterrified in all his life. He found that his arms and legs were shaking uncontrollably, as ifhe were having some sort of fit. His mouth was making strange sounds, like Sunny alwaysdid, as he struggled to find something to say. “Ah—” Klaus heard himself choke out. “Ah—”“When the time comes,” the hook-handed man said smoothly, ignoring Klaus’s noises,“I believe Count Olaf just might leave you to me. So if I were you, I’ d start acting a littlenicer.” The man stood up again and put both his hooks in front of Klaus’s face, letting thelight from the reading lamps reflect off the wicked-looking devices. “Now, if you willexcuse me, I have to fetch your poor orphan siblings.”Klaus felt his body go limp as the hook-handed man left the room, and he wanted to sitthere for a moment and catch his breath. But his mind wouldn’t let him. This was his lastmoment in the library, and perhaps his last opportunity to foil Count Olaf’s plan. But whatto do? Hearing the faint sounds of the hook-handed man talking to Justice Strauss in thegarden, Klaus looked frantically around the library for something that could be helpful.Then, just as he heard the man’s footsteps heading back his way, Klaus spied one book,and quickly grabbed it. He untucked his shirt and put the book inside, hastily retucking itjust as the hook-handed man reentered the library, escorting Violet and carrying Sunny,who was trying without success to bite the man’s hooks.“I’m ready to go,” Klaus said quickly, and walked out the door before the man couldget a good look at him. He walked quickly ahead of his siblings, hoping that nobodywould notice the book-shaped lump in his shirt. Maybe, just maybe, the book Klaus wassmuggling could save their lives.Klaus stayed up all night reading, which was normally something he loved to do. Backwhen his parents were alive, Klaus used to take a flashlight to bed with him and hideunder the covers, reading until he couldn’t keep his eyes open. Some mornings, his fatherwould come into Klaus’s room to wake him up and find him asleep, still clutching hisflashlight in one hand and his book in the other. But on this particular night, of course, thecircumstances were much different.Klaus stood by the window, squinting as he read his smuggled book by the moonlightthat trickled into the room. He occasionally glanced at his sisters. Violet was sleepingfitfully—a word which here means “with much tossing and turning”—on the lumpy bed,and Sunny had wormed her way into the pile of curtains so that she just looked like asmall heap of doth. Klaus had not told his siblings about the book, because he didn’t wantto give them false hope. He wasn’t sure the book would help them out of their dilemma.The book was long, and difficult to read, and Klaus became more and more tired as thenight wore on. Occasionally his eyes would dose. He found himself reading the samesentence over and over. He found himself reading the same sentence over and over. Hefound himself reading the same sentence over and over. But then he would remember theway the hook-hands of Count Olaf’s associate had glinted in the library, and wouldimagine them tearing into his flesh, and he would wake right up and continue reading. Hefound a small scrap of paper and tore it into strips, which he used to mark significant partsof the book.By the time the light outside grew gray with the approaching dawn, Klaus had foundout all he needed to know. His hopes rose along with the sun. Finally, when the first fewbirds began to sing, Klaus tiptoed to the door of the bedroom and eased it open quietly,careful not to wake the restless Violet or Sunny, who was still hidden in the pile ofcurtains. Then he went to the kitchen and sat and waited for Count Olaf.He didn’t have to wait long before he heard Olaf tromping down the tower stairs. WhenCount Olaf walked into the kitchen, he saw Klaus sitting at the table and smirked, a wordwhich here means “smiled in an unfriendly, phony way.”“Hello, orphan,” he said. “You’re up early.”Klaus’s heart was beating fast, but he felt calm on the outside, as if he had on a layer ofinvisible armor. “I’ve been up all night,” he said, “reading this book.” He put the book outon the table so Olaf could see it. “It’s called Nuptial Law, ” Klaus said, “and I learnedmany interesting things while reading it.”Count Olaf had taken out a bottle of wine to pour himself some breakfast, but when hesaw the book he stopped, and sat down.“The word ‘nuptial,’” Klaus said, “means ‘relating to marriage.’”“I know what the word means,” Count Olaf growled. “Where did you get that book?”“From Justice Strauss’s library,” Klaus said. “But that’s not important. What’simportant is that I have found out your plan.”,“Is that so?” Count Olaf said, his one eyebrow raising. “And what is my plan, you littlerunt?”Klaus ignored the insult and opened the book to where one of the scraps of paper wasmarking his place. “‘The laws of marriage in this community are very simple,’” he readout loud.“‘The requirements are as follows: the presence of a judge, a statement of ”I do“ byboth the bride and the groom, and the signing of an explanatory document in the bride’sown hand.”, Klaus put down the book and pointed at Count Olaf. “If my sister says ‘I do’and signs a piece of paper, while Justice Strauss is in the room, then she is legally married.This play you’re putting on shouldn’t be called The Marvelous Marriage. It should becalled The Menacing Marriage. You’re not going to marry Violet figuratively—you’regoing to marry her literally! This play won’t be pretend; it will be real and legallybinding.”Count Olaf laughed a rough, hoarse laugh. “Your sister isn’t old enough to getmarried.”“She can get married if she has the permission of her legal guardian, acting in locoparentis,” Klaus said. “I read that, too. You can’t fool me.”“Why in the world would I want to actually marry your sister?” Count Olaf asked. “It istrue she is very pretty, but a man like myself can acquire any number of beautifulwomen.”Klaus turned to a different section of Nuptial Law. “‘A legal husband,’” he read outloud, “‘has the right to control any money in the possession of his legal wife.’” Klausgazed at Count Olaf in triumph. “You’re going to marry my sister to gain control of theBaudelaire fortune! Or at least, that’s what you planned to do. But when I show thisinformation to Mr. Poe, your play will not be performed, and you will go to jail!”Count Olaf’s eyes grew very shiny, but he continued to smirk at Klaus. This wassurprising. Klaus had guessed that once he announced what he knew, this dreadful manwould have been very angry, even violent. After all, he’d had a furious outburst justbecause he’d wanted roast beef instead of puttanesca sauce. Surely he’d be even moreenraged to have his plan discovered. But Count Olaf just sat there as calmly as if theywere discussing the weather.“I guess you’ve found me out,” Olaf said simply. “I suppose you’re right: I’ll go toprison, and you and the other orphans will go free. Now, why don’t you run up to yourroom and wake your sisters? I’m sure they’ll want to know all about your grand victoryover my evil ways.”Klaus looked closely at Count Olaf, who was continuing to smile as if he had just told aclever joke. Why wasn’t he threatening Klaus in anger, or tearing his hair out infrustration, or running to pack his clothes and escape? This wasn’t happening at all theway Klaus had pictured it.“Well, I will go tell my sisters,” he said, and walked back into his bedroom. Violet wasstill dozing on the bed and Sunny was still hidden beneath the curtains. Klaus woke Violetup first.“I stayed up all night reading,” Klaus said breathlessly, as his sister opened her eyes,“and I discovered what Count Olaf is up to. He plans to marry you for real, when you andJustice Strauss and everyone all think it’s just a play, and once he’s your husband he’llhave control of our parents’ money and he can dispose of us.”“How can he marry me for real?” Violet asked. “It’s only a play.”“The only legal requirements of marriage in this community,” Klaus explained, holdingup Nuptial Law to show his sister where he’d learned the information, “are your saying ‘Ido,’ and signing a document in your own hand in the presence of a judge—like JusticeStrauss!”“But surely I’m not old enough to get married,” Violet said. “I’m only fourteen.”“Girls under the age of eighteen,” Klaus said, flipping to another part of the book, “canmarry if they have the permission of their legal guardian. That’s Count Olaf.”“Oh no!” Violet cried. “What can we do?” “We can show this to Mr. Poe,” Klaus said,pointing to the book, “and he will finally believe us that Count Olaf is up to nogood.Quick, get dressed while I wake up Sunny, and we can be at the bank by the time itopens.”Violet, who usually moved slowly in the mornings, nodded and immediately got out ofbed and went to the cardboard box to find some proper clothing. Klaus walked over to thelump of curtains to wake up his younger sister.“Sunny,” he called out kindly, putting his hand on where he thought his sister’s headwas. “Sunny. ”There was no answer. Klaus called out “Sunny” again, and pulled away the top fold ofthe curtains to wake up the youngest Baudelaire child. “Sunny,” he said, but then hestopped. For underneath the curtain was nothing but another curtain. He moved aside allthe layers, but his little sister was nowhere to be found. “Sunny!” he yelled, lookingaround the room. Violet dropped the dress she was holding and began to help him search.They looked in every corner, under the bed, and even inside the cardboard box. But Sunnywas gone.“Where can she be?” Violet asked worriedly. “She’s not the type to run off.”“Where can she be indeed?” said a voice behind them, and the two children turnedaround. Count Olaf was standing in the doorway, watching Violet and Klaus as theysearched the room. His eyes were shining brighter than they ever had, and he was stillsmiling like he’d just uttered a joke.C H A P T E RNine“ Yes, ” Count Olaf continued, “it certainly is strange to find a child missing. Andone so small, and helpless.”“Where’s Sunny?” Violet cried. “What have you done with her?”Count Olaf continued to speak as if he had not heard Violet. “But then again, one seesstrange things every day. In fact, if you two orphans follow me out to the backyard, I thinkwe will all see something rather unusual.”The Baudelaire children didn’t say anything, but followed Count Olaf through thehouse and out the back door. Violet looked around the small, scraggly yard, in which shehad not been since she and Klaus had been forced to chop wood. The pile of logs they hadmade was still lying there untouched, as if Count Olaf had merely made them chop logsfor his own amusement, rather than for any purpose. Violet shivered, still in hernightgown, but as she gazed here and there she saw nothing unusual.“You’re not looking in the right place,” Count Olaf said. “For children who read somuch, you two are remarkably unintelligent.”Violet looked over in the direction of Count Olaf, but could not meet his eyes. The eyeson his face, that is. She was staring at his feet, and could see the tattooed eye that had beenwatching the Baudelaire orphans since their troubles had begun. Then her eyes traveled upCount Olaf’s lean, shabbily dressed body, and she saw that he was pointing up with onescrawny hand. She followed his gesture and found herself looking at the forbidden tower.It was made of dirty stone, with only one lone window, and just barely visible in thewindow was what looked like a birdcage.“Oh no,” Klaus said in a small, scared voice, and Violet looked again. It was a birdcage,dangling from the tower window like a flag in the wind, but inside the birdcage she couldsee a small and frightened Sunny. When Violet looked closely, she could see there was alarge piece of tape across her sister’s mouth, and ropes around her body. She was utterlytrapped.“Let her go!” Violet said to Count Olaf. “She has done nothing to you! She is aninfant!”“Well, now,” Count Olaf said, sitting on a stump. “If you really want me to let her go, Iwill. But surely even a stupid brat like you might realize that if I let her go—or, moreaccurately, if I ask my comrade to let her go—poor little Sunny might not survive the falldown to the ground. That’s a thirty-foot tower, which is a very long way for a very littleperson to fall, even when she’s inside a cage. But if you insist—”“No!” Klaus cried. “Don’t”Violet looked into Count Olaf’s eyes, and then at the small parcel that was her sister,hanging from the top of the tower and moving slowly in the breeze. She pictured Sunnytoppling from the tower and onto the ground, pictured her sister’s last thoughts being onesof sheer terror. “Please,” she said to Olaf, feeling tears in her eyes. “She’s just a baby.We’ll do anything, anything. Just don’t harm her.”“Anything?” Count Olaf asked, his eyebrow rising. He leaned in toward Violet andgazed into her eyes. “Anything? Would you, for instance, consider marrying me duringtomorrow night’s performance?”Violet stared at him. She had an odd feeling in her stomach, as if she were the one beingthrown from a great height. The really frightening thing about Olaf, she realized, was thathe was very smart after all. He wasn’t merely an unsavory drunken brute, but an unsavory,clever drunken brute.“While you were busy reading books and making accusations,” Count Olaf said, “I hadone of my quietest, sneakiest assistants skulk into your bedroom and steal little Sunnyaway. She is perfectly safe, for now. But I consider her to be a stick behind a stubbornmule.”“Our sister is not a stick,” Klaus said.“A stubborn mule,” Count Olaf explained, “does not move in the direction its ownerwants it to. In that way, it is like you children, who insist on mucking up my plans. Anyanimal owner will tell you that a stubborn mole will move in the proper direction if thereis a carrot in front of it, and a stick behind it. It will move toward the carrot, because itwants the reward of food, and away from the stick, because it does not want thepunishment of pain. Likewise, you will do what I say, to avoid the punishment of the lossof your sister, and because you want the reward of surviving this experience. Now, Violet,let me ask you again: will you marry me?”Violet swallowed, and looked down at Count Olaf’s tattoo. She could not bring herselfto answer.“Come now,” Count Olaf said, his voice faking—a word which here means“feigning“—kindness. He reached out a hand and stroked Violet’s hair. ”Would it be soterrible to be my bride, to live in my house for the rest of your life? You’re such a lovelygirl, after the marriage I wouldn’t dispose of you like your brother and sister.Violet imagined sleeping beside Count Olaf, and waking up each morning to look atthis terrible man. She pictured wandering around the house, trying to avoid him all day,and cooking for his terrible friends at night, perhaps every night, for the rest of her life.But then she looked up at her helpless sister and knew what her answer must be. “If youlet Sunny go,” she said finally, “I will marry you.”“I will let Sunny go,” Count Olaf answered, “after tomorrow night’s performance. Inthe meantime, she will remain in the tower for safekeeping. And, as a warning, I will tellyou that my assistants will stand guard at the door to the tower staircase, in case you weregetting any ideas.”“You’re a terrible man,” Klaus spat out, but Count Olaf merely smiled again.“I may be a terrible man,” Count Olaf said, “but I have been able to concoct a foolproofway of getting your fortune, which is more than you’ve been able to do.” With that, hebegan to stride toward the house. “Remember that, orphans,” he said. “You may have readmore books than I have, but it didn’t help you gain the upper hand in this situation. Now,give me that book which gave you such grand ideas, and do the chores assigned to you.”Klaus sighed, and relinquished—a word which here means “gave to Count Olaf eventhough he didn’t want to”—the book on nuptial law. He began to follow Count Olaf intothe house, but Violet stayed still as a statue. She hadn’t been listening to that last speech ofCount Olaf’s, knowing it would be full of the usual self congratulatory nonsense anddespicable insults. She was staring at the tower, not at the top, where her sister wasdangling, but the whole length of it. Klaus looked back at her and saw something hehadn’t seen in quite some time.To those who hadn’t been around Violet long, nothing would have seemed unusual, butthose who knew her well knew that when she tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out ofher eyes, it meant that the gears and levers of her inventing brain were whirring at topspeed.C H A P T E RTenThat night, Klaus was the Baudelaire orphan sleeping fitfully in the bed, and Violetwas the Baudelaire orphan staying up, working by the light of the moon. all day, the twosiblings had wandered around the house, doing the assigned chores and scarcely speakingto each other. Klaus was too tired and despondent to speak, and Violet was holed up in theinventing area of her mind, too busy planning to talk. When night approached, Violetgathered Up the curtains that had been Sunny’s bed and brought them to the door to thetower stairs, where the enormous assistant of Count Olaf’s, the one who looked likeneither a man nor a woman, was standing guard. Violet asked whether she could bring theblankets to her sister, to make her more comfortable during the night. The enormouscreature merely looked at Violet with its blank white eyes and shook its head, thendismissed her with a silent gesture.Violet knew, of course, that Sunny was too terrified to be comforted by a handful ofdraperies, but she hoped that she would be allowed a few moments to hold her and tell herthat everything would turn out all right. Also, she wanted to do something known in thecrime industry as “casing the joint.” “Casing the joint” means observing a particularlocation in order to formulate a plan. For instance, if you are a bank robber—although Ihope you aren’t—you might go to the bank a few days before you planned to rob it.Perhaps wearing a disguise, you would look around the bank and observe security guards,cameras, and other obstacles, so you could plan how to avoid capture or death during yourburglary.Violet, a law-abiding citizen, was not planning to rob a bank, but she was planning torescue Sunny, and was hoping to catch a glimpse of the tower room in which her sisterwas being held prisoner, so as to make her plan more easily. But it appeared that shewasn’t going to be able to case the joint after all. This made Violet nervous as she sat onthe floor by the window, working on her invention as quietly as she could.Violet had very few materials with which to invent something, and she didn’t want towander around the house looking for more for fear of arousing the suspicions of CountOlaf and his troupe. But she had enough to build a rescuing device. Above the windowwas a sturdy metal rod from which the curtains had hung, and Violet took it down. Usingone of the rocks Olaf had left in a pile in the corner, she broke the curtain rod into twopieces. She then bent each piece of the rod into several sharp angles, leaving tiny cuts onher hands as she did so. Then Violet took down the painting of the eye. On the back of thepainting, as on the back of many paintings, was a small piece of wire to hang on the hook.She removed the wire and used it to connect the two pieces together. Violet had now madewhat looked like a large metal spider.She then went over to the cardboard box and took out the ugliest of the clothes thatMrs. Poe had purchased, the outfits the Baudelaire orphans would never wear no matterhow desperate they were. Working quickly and quietly, she began to tear these into long,narrow strips, and to tie these strips together. Among Violet’s many useful skills was avast knowledge of different types of knots. The particular knot she was using was calledthe Devil’s Tongue. A group of female Finnish pirates invented it back in the fifteenthcentury, and named it the Devil’s Tongue because it twisted this way and that, in a mostcomplicated and eerie way. The Devil’s Tongue was a very useful knot, and when Violettied the cloth strips together, end to end, it formed a sort of rope. As she worked, sheremembered something her parents had said to her when Klaus was born, and again whenthey brought Sunny home from the hospital. “You are the eldest Baudelaire child,” theyhad said, kindly but firmly. “And as the eldest, it will always be your responsibility to lookafter your younger siblings. Promise us that you will always watch out for them and makesure they don’t get into trouble.” Violet remembered her promise, and thought of Klaus,whose bruised face still looked sore, and Sunny, dangling from the top of the tower like aflag, and began working faster. Even though Count Olaf was of course the cause of all thismisery, Violet felt as if she had broken her promise to her parents, and vowed to make itright.Eventually, using enough of the ugly clothing, Violet had a rope that was, she hoped,just over thirty feet long. She tied one end of it to the metal spider, and looked at herhandiwork. What she had made was called a grappling hook, which is something used forclimbing up the sides of buildings, usually for a nefarious purpose. Using the metal end tohook onto something at the top of the tower, and the rope to aid her climb, Violet hoped toreach the top of the tower, untie Sunny’s cage, and climb back down. This was, of course,a very risky plan, both because it was dangerous, and because she had made the grapplinghook herself, instead of purchasing it at a store that sold such things. But agrappling hookwas all Violet could think of to make without a proper inventing laboratory, and time wasrunning short. She hadn’t told Klaus about her plan, because she didn’t want to give himfalse hope, so without waking him, she gathered up her grappling hook and tiptoed out ofthe room.A Series of Unfortunate Events 1- TheBad BeginningOnce outside, Violet realized her plan was even more difficult than she had thought.The night was quiet, which would mean she would have to make practically no noise atall. The night also had a slight breeze, and when she pictured herself swinging in thebreeze, clinging to a rope made of ugly clothing, she almost gave up entirely. And thenight was dark, so it was hard to see where she could toss the grappling hook and have themetal arms hook onto some thing. But, standing there shivering in her nightgown, Violetknew she had to try. Using her right hand, she threw the grappling hook as high and ashard as she could, and waited to see if it would catch onto something.Clang! The hook made a loud noise as it hit the tower, but it didn’t stick to anything,and came crashing back down. Her heart pounding, Violet stood stock-still, wondering ifCount Olaf or one of his accomplices would come and investigate. But nobody arrivedafter a few moments, and Violet, swinging the hook over her head like a lasso, tried again.Clang! Clang! The grappling hook hit the tower twice as it bounced back down to theground. Violet waited again, listening for footsteps, but all she heard was her own terrifiedpulse. She decided to try one more time.Clang! The grappling hook hit the tower, and fell down again, hitting Violet hard in theshoulder. One of the arms tore her nightgown and cut through her skin. Biting down onher hand to keep from crying out in pain, Violet felt the place in her shoulder where shehad been struck, and it was wet with blood. Her arm throbbed in pain.At this point in the proceedings, if I were Violet, I would have given up, but just as shewas about to turn around and go inside the house, she pictured how scared Sunny must be,and, ignoring the pain in her shoulder, Violet used her right hand to throw the hook again.Clang! The usual clang! sound stopped halfway through, and Violet saw in the dimlight of the moon that the hook wasn’t falling. Nervously, she gave the rope a good yank,and it stayed put. The grappling hook had worked!Her feet touching the side of the stone tower and her hands grasping the rope, Violetclosed her eyes and began to climb. Never daring to look around, she pulled herself up thetower, hand over hand, all the time keeping in mind her promise to her parents and thehorrible things Count Olaf would do if his villainous plan worked. The evening wind blewharder and harder as she climbed higher and higher, and several times Violet had to stopclimbing as the rope moved in the wind. She was certain that at any moment the clothwould tear, or the hook would slip, and Violet would be sent tumbling to her death. Butthanks to her adroit inventing skills—the word “adroit” here means “skillful”—everythingworked the way it was supposed to work, and suddenly Violet found herself feeling apiece of metal instead of a cloth rope. She opened her eyes and saw her sister Sunny, whowas looking at her frantically and trying to say something past the strip of tape. Violet hadarrived at the top of the tower, right at the window where Sunny was tied.The eldest Baudelaire orphan was about to grab her sister’s cage and begin her descentwhen she saw something that made her stop. It was the spidery end of the grappling hook,which after several attempts had finally stuck onto something on the tower. Violet hadguessed, during her climb, that it had found some notch in the stone, or part of thewindow, or perhaps a piece of furniture inside the tower room, and stuck there. But thatwasn’t what the hook had stuck on. Violet’s grappling hook had stuck on another hook. Itwas one of the hooks on the hook-handed man. And his other hook, Violet saw, wasglinting in the moonlight as it reached right toward her.C H A P T E REleven“ How pleasant that you could join us,” the hook-handed man said in a sickly sweetvoice. Violet immediately tried to scurry back down the rope, but Count Olaf’s assistantwas too quick for her. In one movement he hoisted her into the tower room and, with aflick of his hook, sent her rescue device clanging to the ground. Now Violet was astrapped as her sister. “I’m so glad you’re here,” the hook-handed man said. “I was justthinking how much I wanted to see your pretty face. Have a seat.”“What are you going to do with me?” Violet asked.“I said have a seat!” the hook-handed man snarled, and pushed her into a chair.Violet looked around the dim and messy room. I am certain that over the course ofyour own life, you have noticed that people’s rooms reflect their personalities. In myroom, for instance, I have gathered a collection of objects that are important to me,including a dusty accordion on which I can play a few sad songs, a large bundle of noteson the activities of the Baudelaire orphans, and a blurry photograph, taken a very longtime ago, of a woman whose name is Beatrice. These are items that are very precious anddear to me. The tower room held objects that were very dear and precious to Count Olaf,and they were terrible things. There were scraps of paper on which he had written his evilideas in an illegible scrawl, lying in messy piles on top of the copy of Nuptial Law he hadtaken away from Klaus. There were a few chairs and a handful of candles which weregiving off flickering shadows. Littered all over the floor were empty wine bottles and dirtydishes. But most of all were the drawings and paintings and carvings of eyes, big andsmall, all over the room. There were eyes painted on the ceilings, and scratched into thegrimy wooden floors. There were eyes scrawled along the windowsill, and one big eyepainted on the knob of the door that led to the stairs. It was a terrible place.The hook-handed man reached into a pocket of his greasy overcoat and pulled out awalkie-talkie. With some difficulty, he pressed a button and waited a moment. “Boss, it’sme,” he said. “Your blushing bride just climbed up here to try and rescue the biting brat.”He paused as Count Olaf said something. “I don’t know. With some sort of rope.”“It was a grappling hook,” Violet said, and tore off a sleeve of her nightgown to make abandage for her shoulder. “I made it myself.”“She says it was a grappling hook,” the hook-handed man said into the walkie-talkie. “Idon’t know, boss. Yes, boss. Yes, boss, of course I understand she’s yours. Yes, boss.” Hepressed a button to disconnect the line, and then turned to face Violet. “Count Olaf is verydispleased with his bride. ”“I’m not his bride,” Violet said bitterly.“Very soon you will be,” the hook-handed man said, wagging his hook the way mostpeople would wag a finger. “In the meantime, however, I have to go and fetch yourbrother. The three of you will be locked in this room until night falls. That way, CountOlaf can be sure you will all stay out of mischief.” With that, the hook-handed manstomped out of the room.Violet heard the door lock behind him, and then listened to his footsteps fading awaydown the stairs. She immediately went over to Sunny, and put a hand on her little head.Afraid to untie or untape her sister for fear of incurring—a word which here means“bringing about”—Count Olaf’s wrath, Violet stroked Sunny’s hair and murmured thateverything was all right.But of course, everything was not all right. Everything was all wrong. As the first lightof morning trickled into the tower room, Violet reflected on all the awful things she andher siblings had experienced recently. Their parents had died, suddenly and horribly. Mrs.Poe had bought them ugly clothing. They had moved into Count Olaf’s house and weretreated terribly. Mr. Poe had refused to help them. They had discovered a fiendish plotinvolving marrying Violet and stealing the Baudelaire fortune. Klaus had tried to confrontOlaf with knowledge he’d learned in Justice Strauss’s library and failed. Poor Sunny hadbeen captured. And now, Violet had tried to rescue Sunny and found herself captured aswell. All in all, the Baudelaire orphans had encountered catastrophe after catastrophe, andViolet found their situation lamentably deplorable, a phrase which here means “it was notat all enjoyable.”The sound of footsteps coming up the stairs brought Violet out of her thoughts, andsoon the hook-handed man opened the door and thrust a very tired, confused, and scaredKlaus into the room.“Here’s the last orphan,” the hook-handed man said. “And now, I must go help CountOlaf with final preparations for tonight’s performance. No monkey business, you two, or Iwill have to tie you up and let you dangle out of the window as well.” Glaring at them, helocked the door again and tromped downstairs.Klaus blinked and looked around the filthy room. He was still in his pajamas. “Whathas happened?” he asked Violet. “Why are we up here?”“I tried to rescue Sunny,” Violet said, “using an invention of mine to climb up thetower.”Klaus went over to the window and looked down at the ground. “It’s so high up,” hesaid. “You must have been terrified.”“It was very scary,” she admitted, “but not as scary as the thought of marrying CountOlaf.”“I’m sorry your invention didn’t work,” Klaus said sadly.“The invention worked fine,” Violet said, rubbing her sore shoulder. “I just got caught.And now we’re doomed. The hook-handed man said he’d keep us here until tonight, andthen it’s The Marvelous Marriage. ”“Do you think you could invent something that would help us escape?” Klaus asked,looking around the room.“Maybe,” Violet said. “And why don’t you go through those books and papers? Perhapsthere’s some information that could be of use.”For the next few hours, Violet and Klaus searched the room and their own minds foranything that might help them. Violet looked for objects with which she could inventsomething. Klaus read through Count Olaf’s papers and books. From time to time, theywould go over to Sunny and smile at her, and par her head, to reassure her. Occasionally,Violet and Klaus would speak to each other, but mostly they were silent, lost in their ownthoughts.“If we had any kerosene,” Violet said, around noon, “I could make Molotov cocktailswith these bottles.”“What are Molotov cocktails?” Klaus asked.“They’re small bombs made inside bottles,” Violet explained. “We could throw themour the window and attract the attention of passersby.”“But we don’t have any kerosene,” Klaus said mournfully.They were silent for several hours.“If we were polygamists,” Klaus said, “Count Olaf’s marriage plan wouldn’t work.”“What are polygamists?” Violet asked.“Polygamists are people who marry more than one person,’” Klaus explained. “In thiscommunity, polygamists are breaking the law, even if they have married in the presence ofa judge, with the statement of ‘I do’ and the signed document in their own hand. I read ithere in Nuptial Law. ”“But we’re not polygamists,” Violet said mournfully.They were silent for several more hours.“We could break these bottles in half,” Violet said, “and use them as knives, but I’mafraid that Count Olaf’s troupe would overpower us.”“You could say ‘I don’t’ instead of ‘I do,’” Klaus said, “but I’m afraid Count Olafwould order Sunny dropped off the tower.”“I certainly would,” Count Olaf said, and the children jumped. They had been soinvolved in their conversation that they hadn’t heard him come up the stairs and open thedoor. He was wearing a fancy suit and his eyebrow had been waxed so it looked as shinyas his eyes. Behind him stood the hook-handed man, who smiled and waved a hook at theyoungsters. “Come, orphans,” Count Olaf said. “It is time for the big event. My associatehere will stay behind in this room, and we will keep in constant contact through ourwalkie-talkies. If anything goes wrong during tonight’s performance, your sister will bedropped to her death. Come along now.”Violet and Klaus looked at each other, and then at Sunny, still dangling in her cage, andfollowed Count Olaf out the door. As Klaus walked down the tower stairs, he felt a heavysinking in his heart as all hope left him. There truly seemed to be no way out of theirpredicament.Violet was feeling the same way, until she reached out with her right hand to grasp thebanister, for balance. She looked at her right hand for a second, and began to think. all theway down the stairs, and out the door, and the short walk down the block to the theater,Violet thought and thought and thought, harder than she had in her entire life.that the performance of The Marvelous Marriage had begun, and it seemed too late todo anything to foil Count Olaf’s plan. On the other hand, however, they were fascinated,as they had never been backstage at a theatrical production and there was so much to see.Members of Count Olaf’s theater troupe hurried this way and that, too busy to even glanceat the children. Three very short men were carrying a large flat piece of wood, painted tolook like a living room. The two white-faced women were arranging flowers in a vase thatfrom far away appeared to be marble, but dose up looked more like cardboard. Animportant-looking man with warts all over his face was adjusting enormous light fixtures.As the children peeked onstage, they could see Count Olaf, in his fancy suit, declaimingsome lines from the play, just as the curtain carne down, controlled by a woman with veryshort hair who was pulling on a long rope, attached to a pulley. Despite their fear, you see,the two older Baudelaires were very interested in what was going on, and only wished thatthey were not involved in any way.As the curtain fell, Count Olaf strode offstage and looked at the children. “It’s the endof Act Two! Why aren’t the orphans in their costumes?” he hissed to the two whitefacedwomen. Then, as the audience broke into applause, his angry expression turned to one ofjoy, and he walked back onstage. Gesturing to the short-haired woman to raise the curtain,he strode to the exact center of the stage and took elaborate bows as the curtain carne up.He waved and blew kisses to the audience as the curtain carne down again, and then hisface once again filled with anger.“ Intermission is only ten minutes,” he said, “and thenthe children must perform. Get them into costumes, quickly!”Without a word the two white-faced women grabbed Violet and Klaus by the wrists andled them into a dressing room. The room was dusty but shiny, covered in mirrors and tinylights so the actors could see better to put on their makeup and wigs, and there werepeople calling out to one another and laughing as they changed their clothes. One whitefaced woman yanked Violet’s arms up and pulled her nightgown off over her head, andthrust a dirty, lacy white dress at her to put on. Klaus, meanwhile, had his pajamasremoved by the other white-faced woman, and was hurriedly stuffed into a blue sailor suitthat itched and made him look like a toddler.“Isn’t this exciting?” said a voice, and the children turned to see Justice Strauss, alldressed up in her judge’s robes and powdered wig. She was clutching a small book. “Youchildren look wonderful!”“So do you,” Klaus said. “What’s that book?”“Why, those are my lines,” Justice Strauss said. “Count Olaf told me to bring a lawbook and read the real wedding ceremony, in order to make the play as realistic aspossible. All you have to say, Violet, is ‘I do,’ but I have to make quite a speech. This isgoing to be such fun.”“You know what would be fun,” Violet said carefully, “is if you changed your linesaround, just a little.”Klaus’s face lit up. “Yes, Justice Strauss. Be creative. There’s no reason to stick to thelegal ceremony. It’s not as if it’s a real wedding.”Justice Strauss frowned. “I don’t know about that, children,” she said. “I think it wouldbe best to follow Count Olaf’s instructions. After all, he’s in charge.”“Justice Strauss!” a voice called. “Justice Strauss! Please report to the makeup artist!”“Oh my word! I get to wear makeup.” Justice Strauss had on a dreamy expression,as if she were about to be crowned queen, instead of just having some powders and creamssmeared on her face. “Children, I must go. See you onstage, my dears!”Justice Strauss ran off, leaving the children to finish changing into their costumes. Oneof the white-faced women put a flowered headdress on Violet, who realized in horror thatthe dress she had changed into was a bridal gown. The other woman put a sailor cap onKlaus, who gazed in one of the mirrors, astonished at how ugly he looked. His eyes metthose of Violet, who was looking in the mirror as well.“What can we do?” Klaus said quietly. “Pretend to be sick? Maybe they’ d call off theperformance.”“Count Olaf would know what we were up to,” Violet replied glumly.“Act Three of The Marvelous Marriage by Al Funcoot is about to begin!” a man with aclipboard shouted. “Everyone, please, get in your places for Act Three!”The actors rushed out of the room, and the white-faced women grabbed the childrenand hustled them out after them. The backstage area was in complete pandemonium—aword which here means “actors and stagehands running around attending to last-minutedetails.” The bald man with the long nose hurried by the children, then stopped himself,looked at Violet in her wedding dress, and smirked.“No funny stuff,” he said to them, waggling a bony finger. “Remember, when you goout there, just do exactly what you’re supposed to do. Count Olaf will be holding hiswalkie-talkie during the entire act, and if you do even one thing wrong, he’ll be givingSunny a call up there in the tower.”“Yes, yes,” Klaus said bitterly. He was tired of being threatened in the same way, overand over.“You’d better do exactly as planned,” the man said again.“I’m sure they will,” said a voice suddenly, and the children turned to see Mr. Poe,dressed very formally and accompanied by his wife. He smiled at the children and cameover to shake their hands. “Polly and I just wanted to tell you to break a leg.”“What?” Klaus said, alarmed.“That’s a theater term,” Mr. Poe explained, “meaning ‘good luck on tonight’sperformance.’ I’m glad that you children have adjusted to life with your new father and areparticipating in family activities.”“Mr. Poe,” Klaus said quickly, “Violet and I have something to tell you. It’s veryimportant.”“What is it?” Mr. Poe said.“Yes,” said Count Olaf, “what is it you have to tell Mr. Poe, children?”Count Olaf had appeared, seemingly out of nowhere, and his shiny eyes glared at thechildren meaningfully. In one hand, Violet and Klaus could see, he held a walkie-talkie.“Just that we appreciate all you’ve done for us, Mr. Poe,” Klaus said weakly. “That’s allwe wanted to say.”“Of course, of course, Mr. Poe said, patting him on the back.” Well, Polly and I hadbetter take our seats. Break a leg, Baudelaires!”“I wish we could break a leg,” Klaus whispered to Violet, and Mr. Poe left.“You will, soon enough,” Count Olaf said, pushing the two children toward the stage.Other actors were milling about, finding their places for Act Three, and Justice Strausswas off in a corner, practicing her lines from her law book. Klaus took a look around thestage, wondering if anyone there could help. The bald man with the long nose tookKlaus’s hand and led him to one side.“You and I will stand here for the duration of the act. That means the whole thing.” “Iknow what the word ‘duration’ means,” Klaus said.“No nonsense,” the bald man said. Klaus watched his sister in her wedding gown takeher place next to Count Olaf as the curtain rose. Klaus heard applause from the audienceas Act Three of The Marvelous Marriage began.It will be of no interest to you if I describe the action of this insipid—the word “insipid”here means “dull and foolish”—play by Al Funcoot, because it was a dreadful play and ofno real importance to our story. Various actors and actresses performed very dull dialogueand moved around the set, as Klaus tried to make eye contact with them and see if theywould help. He soon realized that this play must have been chosen merely as an excuse forOlaf’s evil plan, and not for its entertainment value, as he sensed the audience losinginterest and moving around in their seats. Klaus turned his attention to the audience to seewhether any of them would notice that something was afoot, but the way the wart-facedman had arranged the lights prevented Klaus from seeing the faces in the auditorium, andhe could only make out the dim outlines of the people in the audience. Count Olaf had agreat number of very long speeches, which he performed with elaborated gestures andracial expressions. No one seemed to notice that he held a walkie-talkie the entire time.Finally, Justice Strauss began speaking, and Klaus saw that she was reading directlyfrom the legal book. Her eyes were sparkling and her face flushed as she performedonstage for the first time, too stage struck to realize she was a part of Olaf’s plan. Shespoke on and on about Olaf and Violet caring for each other in sickness and in health, ingood times and bad, and all of those things that are said to many people who decide, forone reason or another, to get married.When she finished her speech, Justice Strauss turned to Count Olaf and asked, “Do youtake this woman to be your lawfully wedded wife?”“I do,” Count Olaf said, smiling. Klaus saw Violet shudder.“Do you,” Justice Strauss said, turning to Violet, “take this man to be your lawfullywedded husband?”“I do,” Violet said. Klaus clenched his fists.His sister had said “I do” in the presence of a judge. Once she signed the officialdocument, the wedding was legally valid. And now, Klaus could see that Justice Strausswas taking the document from one of the other actors and holding it out to Violet to sign.“Don’t move an inch,” the bald man muttered to Klaus, and Klaus thought of poorSunny, dangling at the top of the tower, and stood still as he watched Violet take a longquill pen from Count Olaf. Violet’s eyes were wide as she looked down at the document,and her face was pale, and her left hand was trembling as she signed her name.C H A P T E RThirteen“ And now, ladies and gentlemen,” Count Olaf said, stepping forward to address theaudience, “I have an announcement. There is no reason to continue tonight’s performance,for its purpose has been served. This has not been a scene of fiction. My marriage toViolet Baudelaire is perfectly legal, and now I am in control of her entire fortune.”There were gasps from the audience, and some of the actors looked at one another inshock. Not everyone, apparently, had known about Olaf’s plan. “That can’t be!” JusticeStrauss cried.“The marriage laws in this community are quite simple,” Count Olaf said. “The bridemust say ‘I do’ in the presence of a judge like yourself, and sign an explanatory document.And all of you”—here Count Olaf gestured out to the audience—“are witnesses.”“But Violet is only a child!” one of the actors said. “She’s not old enough to marry.”“She is if her legal guardian agrees,” Count Olaf said, “and in addition to being herhusband, I am her legal guardian.”“But that piece of paper is not an official document!” Justice Strauss said. “That’s just astage prop!”Count Olaf took the paper from Violet’s hand and gave it to Justice Strauss. “I think ifyou look at it closely you will see it is an official document from City Hall.”Justice Strauss took the document in her hand and read it quickly. Then, closing hereyes, she sighed deeply and furrowed her brow, thinking hard. Klaus watched her andwondered if this were the expression Justice Strauss had on her face whenever she wasserving on the High Court. “You’re right,” she said finally, to Count Olaf, “this marriage,unfortunately, is completely legal. Violet said ‘I do,’ and signed her name here on thispaper. Count Olaf, you are Violet’s husband, and therefore in complete control of herestate.”“That can’t be!” said a voice from the audience, and Klaus recognized it as the voice ofMr. Poe. He ran up the stairs to the stage and took the document from Justice Strauss.“This is dreadful nonsense.”“I’m afraid this dreadful nonsense is the law,” Justice Strauss said. Her eyes werefilling up with tears. “I can’t believe how easily I was tricked,” she said. “I would never doanything to harm you children. Never.”“You were easily tricked,” Count Olaf said, grinning, and the judge began to cry. “Itwas child’s play, winning this fortune. Now, if all of you will excuse me, my bride and Ineed to go home for our wedding night.”“First let Sunny go!” Klaus burst out. “You promised to let her go!”“Where is Sunny?” Mr. Poe asked.“She’s all tied up at the moment,” Count Olaf said, “if you will pardon a little joke.”His eyes shone as he pressed buttons on the walkie-talkie, and waited while thehookhanded man answered. “Hello? Yes, of course it’s me, you idiot. Everything has goneaccording to plan. Please remove Sunny from her cage and bring her directly to thetheater. Klaus and Sunny have some chores to do before they go to bed.” Count Olaf gaveKlaus a sharp look. “Are you satisfied now?” he asked.“Yes,” Klaus said quietly. He wasn’t satisfied at all, of course, but at least his babysister was no longer dangling from a tower.“Don’t think you’re so safe,” the bald man whispered to Klaus. “Count Olaf will takecare of you and your sisters later. He doesn’t want to do it in front of all these people.” Hedid not have to explain to Klaus what he meant by the phrase “take care of.”“Well, I’m not satisfied at all,” Mr. Poe said. “This is absolutely horrendous. This iscompletely monstrous. This is financially dreadful.”“I’m afraid, however,” Count Olaf said, “that it is legally binding. Tomorrow, Mr. Poe, Ishall come down to the bank and withdraw the complete Baudelaire fortune.”Mr. Poe opened his mouth as if to say something, but began to cough instead. Forseveral seconds he coughed into a handkerchief while everyone waited for him to speak.“I won’t allow it,” Mr. Poe finally gasped, wiping his mouth. “I absolutely will not allowit.”“I’m afraid you have to,” Count Olaf replied.“I’m—I’m afraid Olaf is right,” Justice Strauss said, through her tears. “This marriageis legally binding.”“Begging your pardon,” Violet said suddenly, “but I think you may be wrong.”Everyone turned to look at the eldest Baudelaire orphan.“What did you say, Countess?” Olaf said.“I’m not your countess,” Violet said testily, a word which here means “in an extremelyannoyed tone.” “At least, I don’t think I am.”“And why is that?” Count Olaf said.“I did not sign the document in my own hand, as the law states,” Violet said.“What do you mean? We all saw you!” Count Olaf’s eyebrow was beginning to rise inanger.“I’m afraid your husband is right, dear,” Justice Strauss said sadly. “There’s no usedenying it. There are too many witnesses.”“Like most people,” Violet said, “I am right handed. But I signed the document with myleft hand.”“What.? ” Count Olaf cried. He snatched the paper from Justice Strauss and lookeddown at it. His eyes were shining very bright. “You are a liar!” he hissed at Violet.“No she’s not,” Klaus said excitedly. “I remember, because I watched her left handtrembling as she signed her name.”“It is impossible to prove,” Count Olaf said.“If you like,” Violet said, “I shall be happy to sign my name again, on a separate sheetof paper, with my right hand and then with my left. Then we can see which signature theone on the document most resembles.”“A small detail, like which hand you used to sign,” Count Olaf said, “doesn’t matter inthe least. ”“If you don’t mind, sir,” Mr. Poe said, “I’d like Justice Strauss to make that decision.”Everyone looked at Justice Strauss, who was wiping away the last of her tears. “Let mesee,” she said quietly, and closed her eyes again. She sighed deeply, and the Baudelaireorphans, and all who liked them, held their breath as Justice Strauss furrowed her brow,thinking hard on the situation. Finally, she smiled. “If Violet is indeed right-handed,” shesaid carefully, “and she signed the document with her left hand, then it follows that thesignature does not fulfill the requirements of the nuptial laws. The law clearly states thedocument must be signed in the bride’s own hand. Therefore, we can conclude that thismarriage is invalid. Violet, you are not a countess, and Count Olaf, you are not in controlof the Baudelaire fortune.”“Hooray!” cried a voice from the audience, and several people applauded. Unless youare a lawyer, it will probably strike you as odd that Count Olaf’s plan was defeated byViolet signing with her left hand instead of her right. But the law is an odd thing. Forinstance, one country in Europe has a law that requires all its bakers to sell bread at theexact same price. A certain island has a law that forbids anyone from removing its fruit.And a town not too far from where you live has a law that bars me from coming withinfive miles of its borders. Had Violet signed the marriage contract with her right hand, thelaw would have made her a miserable countess, but because she signed it with her left, sheremained, to her relief, a miserable orphan.What was good news to Violet and her siblings, of course; was bad news to Count Olaf. Nevertheless, he gave everyone a grim smile. “In that case,” he said to Violet, pushing abutton on the walkie-talkie, “you will either marry me again, and correctly this time, or Iwill—”“Neepo!” Sunny’s unmistakable voice rang out over Count Olaf’s as she totteredonstage toward her siblings. The hook-handed man followed behind her, his walkie talkiebuzzing and crackling. Count Olaf was too late.“Sunny! You’re safe!” Klaus cried, and embraced her. Violet rushed over and the twoolder Baudelaires fussed over the youngest one. “Somebody bring her something to eat,”Violet said. “She must be very hungry after hanging in a tower window all that time.”“Cake!” Sunny shrieked.“Argh!” Count Olaf roared. He began to pace back and forth like an animal in a cage,pausing only to point a finger at Violet. “You may not be my wife,” he said, “but you arestill my daughter, and—”“Do you honestly think,” Mr. Poe said in an exasperated voice, “that I will allow you tocontinue to care for these three children, after the treachery I have seen here tonight?”“The orphans are mine,” Count Olaf insisted, “and with me they shall stay. There isnothing illegal about trying to marry someone.”“But there is something illegal about dangling an infant out of a tower window,” JusticeStrauss said indignantly. “You, Count Olaf, will go to jail, and the three children will livewith me.”“Arrest him!” a voice said from the audience, and other people took up the cry.“Send him to jail!”“He’s an evil man!”“And give us our money back! It was a lousy play!”Mr. Poe took Count Olaf’s arm and, after a brief eruption of coughs, announced in aharsh voice, “I hereby arrest you in the name of the law.”“Oh, Justice Strauss!” Violet said. “Did you really mean what you said? Can we reallylive with you?”“Of course I mean it,” Justice Strauss said. “I am very fond of you children, and I feelresponsible for your welfare.”“Can we use your library every day?” Klaus asked.“Can we work in the garden?” Violet asked.“Cake!” Sunny shrieked again, and everyone laughed.At this point in the story, I feel obliged to interrupt and give you one last warning. As Isaid at the very beginning, the book you are holding in your hands does not have a happyending. It may arrear now that Count Olaf will go to jail and that the three Baudelaireyoungsters will live happily ever after with Justice Strauss, but it is not so. If you like, youmay shut the book this instant and not read the unhappy ending that is to follow. You mayspend the rest of your life believing that the Baudelaires triumphed over Count Olaf andlived the rest of their lives in the house and library of Justice Strauss, but that is not howthe story goes. For as everyone was laughing at Sunny’s cry for cake, the importantlooking man with all the warts on his face was sneaking toward the controls for thelighting of the theater.Quick as a wink, the man flicked the main switch so that all the lights went off andevery one was standing in darkness. Instantly, pandemonium ensued as everyone ran thisway and that, shouting at one another. Actors tripped over members of the audience.Members of the audience tripped over theatrical props. Mr. Poe grabbed his wife, thinkingit was Count Olaf. Klaus grabbed Sunny and held her up as high as he could, so shewouldn’t get hurt. But Violet knew at once what had happened, and made her waycarefully to where she remembered the lights had been. When the play was beingperformed, Violet had watched the light controls carefully, taking mental notes in casethese devices carne in handy for an invention. She was certain if she could find the switchshe could turn it back on. Her arms stretched in front of her as if she were blind, Violetmade her way across the stage, stepping carefully around pieces of furniture and startledactors. In the darkness, Violet looked like a ghost, her white wedding gown moving slowlyacross the stage. Then, just as she had reached the switch, Violet felt a hand on hershoulder. A figure leaned in to whisper into her ear.“I’ll get my hands on your fortune if it’s the last thing I do,” the voice hissed. “Andwhen I have it, I’ll kill you and your siblings with my own two hands.”Violet gave a little cry of terror, but flicked the switch on. The entire theater wasflooded with light. Everyone blinked and looked around. Mr. Poe let go of his wife. Klausput Sunny down. But nobody was touching Violet’s shoulder. Count Olaf was gone.“Where did he go?” Mr. Poe shouted. “Where did they all go?”The Baudelaire youngsters looked around and saw that not only had Count Olafvanished, but his accomplices-the wart-faced man, the hook-handed man, the bald manwith the long nose, the enormous person who looked like neither a man nor a woman, andthe two white-faced women—had vanished along with him.“They must have run outside,” Klaus said, “while it was still dark.”Mr. Poe led the way outside, and Justice Strauss and the children followed. Way, waydown the block, they could see a long black car driving away into the night. Maybe itcontained Count Olaf and his associates. Maybe it didn’t. But in any case, it turned acorner and disappeared into the dark city as the children watched without a word.“Blast it,” Mr. Poe said. “They’re gone. But don’t worry, children, we’ll catch them.I’m going to go call the police immediately.”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked at one another and knew that it wasn’t as simple as Mr.Poe said. Count Olaf would take care to stay out of sight as he planned his next move. Hewas far too clever to be captured by the likes of Mr. Poe.“Well, let’s go home, children,” Justice Strauss said. “We can worry about this in themorning, when I’ve fixed you a good breakfast.”Mr. Poe coughed. “Wait a minute,” he said, looking down at the floor. “I’m sorry to tellyou this, children, but I cannot allow you to be raised by someone who is not a relative.”“What?” Violet cried. “After all Justice Strauss has done for us?”“We never would have figured out Count Olaf’s plan without her and her library,”Klaus said. “Without Justice Strauss, we would have lost our lives.”“That may be so,” Mr. Poe said, “and I thank Justice Strauss for her generosity, but yourparents’ will is very specific. You must be adopted by a relative. Tonight you will staywith me in my home, and tomorrow I shall go to the bank and figure out what to do withyou. I’m sorry, but that is the way it is.”The children looked at Justice Strauss, who sighed heavily and hugged each of theBaudelaire youngsters in turn. “Mr. Poe is right,” she said sadly. “He must respect yourparents’ wishes. Don’t you want to do what your parents wanted, children?”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny pictured their loving parents, and wished more than ever thatthe fire had not occurred. Never, never had they felt so alone. They wanted very badly tolive with this kind and generous woman, but they knew that it simply could not be done. “Iguess you’re right, Justice Strauss,” Violet said finally. “We will miss you very much.”“I will miss you, too,” she said, and her eyes filled with tears once more. Then theyeach gave Justice Strauss one last embrace, and followed Mr. and Mrs. Poe to their car.The Baudelaire orphans piled into the backseat, and peered out the back window at JusticeStrauss, who was crying and waving to them. Ahead of them were the darkened streets,where Count Olaf had escaped to plan more treachery. Behind them was the kind judge,who had taken such an interest in the three children. To Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, itseemed that Mr. Poe and the law had made the incorrect decision to take them away fromthe possibility of a happy life with Justice Strauss and toward an unknown fate with someunknown relative. They didn’t understand it, but like so many unfortunate events in life,just because you don’t understand it doesn’t mean it isn’t so. The Baudelaires bunched uptogether against the cold night air, and kept waving out the back window. The car drovefarther and farther away, until Justice Strauss was merely a speck in the darkness, and itseemed to the children that they were moving in an aberrant—the word “aberrant” heremeans “very, very wrong, and causing much grief”—direction.LEMONY SNICKET was born in a small town where the inhabitants were suspiciousand prone to riot. He now lives in the city. During his spare time he gathers Evidence andis considered something of an expert by leading authorities. These are his first books forHarper Collins.To My Kind Editor;I am writing to you from the London branch of the Herpetological Society, where I amtrying to find out what happened to the reptile collection of Dr. Montgomery Montgomeryfollowing the tragic events that occurred while the Baudelaire orphans were in his care.An associate of mine will place a small waterproof box in the phone booth of theElektra Hotel at 11 P.M. next Tuesday. Please retrieve it before Midnight to avoid itfalling into the wrong hands. In the box you will find my description of these terribleevents, entitled THE REPTILE ROOM, as well as a map of Lousy Lane, a copy of thefilm Zombies in the Snow., and Dr. Montgomery’s recipe for coconut cream cake. I havealso managed to track down one of the few photographs of Dr. Lucafont, In order to helpMr. Helquist with his illustrations.Remember, you are my last hope that the tales of the Baudelaire orphans can finally betold to the general public.With all due respect,Lemony SnicketA Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery SlopeASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the TenthThe Slippery SlopeLemony SnicketC H A P T E ROneA man of my acquaintance once wrote a poem called “The Road Less Traveled,”describing a journey he took through the woods along a path most travelers neverused. The poet found that the road less traveled was peaceful but quite lonely, and hewas probably a bit nervous as he went along, because if anything happened on theroad less traveled, the other travelers would be on the road more frequently traveledand so couldn’t hear him as he cried for help. Sure enough, that poet is now dead.Like a dead poet, this book can be said to be on the road less traveled, because itbegins with the three Baudelaire children on a path leading through the MortmainMountains , which is not a popular destination for travelers, and it ends in thechurning waters of the Stricken Stream, which few travelers even go near. But thisbook is also on the road less traveled, because unlike books most people prefer,which provide comforting and entertaining tales about charming people and talkinganimals, the tale you are reading now is nothing but distressing and unnerving, andthe people unfortunate enough to be in the story are far more desperate and franticthan charming, and I would prefer to not speak about the animals at all. For thatreason, I can no more suggest the reading of this woeful book than I can recommendwandering around the woods by yourself, because like the road less traveled, thisbook is likely to make you feel lonely, miserable, and in need of help. The Baudelaireorphans, however, had no choice but to be on the road less traveled. Violet and Klaus,the two elder Baudelaires, were in a caravan, traveling very quickly along the highmountain path. Neither Violet, who was fourteen, nor Klaus, who had recently turnedthirteen, had ever thought they would find themselves on this road, except perhapswith their parents on a family vacation. But the Baudelaire parents were nowhere tobe found after a terrible fire destroyed their home — although the children had reasonto believe that one parent may not have died in the blaze after all — and the caravanwas not heading up the Mortmain Mountains, toward a secret headquarters thesiblings had heard about and were hoping to find. The caravan was heading down theMortmain Mountains , very quickly, with no way to control or stop its journey, soViolet and Klaus felt more like fish in a stormy sea than travelers on a vacation.But Sunny Baudelaire was in a situation that could be said to be even moredesperate. Sunny was the youngest Baudelaire, still learning to speak in a way thateveryone could understand, so she scarcely had words for how frightened she was.Sunny was traveling uphill, toward the headquarters in the Mortmain Mountains , inan automobile that was working perfectly, but the driver of the automobile was a manwho was reason enough for being terrified. Some people called this man wicked.Some called him facinorous, which is a fancy word for “wicked.” But everyonecalled him Count Olaf, unless he was wearing one of his ridiculous disguises andmaking people call him a false name. Count Olaf was an actor, but he had largelyabandoned his theatrical career to try to steal the enormous fortune the Baudelaireparents had left behind. Olaf’s schemes to get the fortune had been mean-spirited andparticularly complicated, but nevertheless he had managed to attract a girlfriend, avillainous and stylish woman named Esmé Squalor, who was sitting next to CountOlaf in the car, cackling nastily and clutching Sunny on her lap. Also in the car wereseveral employees of Olaf’s, including a man with hooks instead of hands, twowomen who liked to wear white powder all over their faces, and three new comradesOlaf had recently recruited at Caligari Carnival. The Baudelaire children had been atthe carnival, too, wearing disguises of their own, and had pretended to join CountOlaf in his treachery, but the villain had seen through their ruse, a phrase which heremeans “realized who they really were, and cut the knot attaching the caravan to thecar, leaving Sunny in Olaf’s clutches and her siblings tumbling toward their doom.”Sunny sat in the car and felt Esmé‘s long fingernails scratch her shoulders, andworried about what would happen to her and what was happening to her oldersiblings, as she heard their screams getting fainter and fainter as the car drove fartherand farther away.“We have to stop this caravan!” Klaus screamed. Hurriedly, he put on his glasses,as if by improving his vision he might improve the situation. But even in perfectfocus, he could see their predicament was dire. The caravan had served as a home forseveral performers at the carnival’s House of Freaks before they defected — a wordwhich here means “joined Count Olaf’s band of revolting comrades” — and now thecontents of this tiny home were rattling and crashing with each bump in the road.Klaus ducked to avoid a roasting pan, which Hugo the hunchback had used to preparemeals and which had toppled off a shelf in the commotion. He lifted his feet from thefloor as a set of dominoes skittered by — a set that Colette the contortionist had likedto play with. And he squinted above him as a hammock swung violently overhead.An ambidextrous person named Kevin used to sleep in that hammock until he hadjoined Olaf’s troupe, along with Hugo and Colette, and now it seemed like it mightfall at any moment and trap the Baudelaires beneath it.The only comforting thing that Klaus could see was his sister, who was lookingaround the caravan with a fierce and thoughtful expression and unbuttoning the shirtthe two siblings were sharing as part of their disguise. “Help me get us out of thesefreakish pants we’re both in,” Violet said. “There’s no use pretending we’re a twoheaded person anymore, and we both need to be as able-bodied as possible.”In moments, the two Baudelaires wriggled out of the oversized clothing they hadtaken from Count Olaf’s disguise kit and were standing in regular clothes, trying tobalance in the shaky caravan. Klaus quickly stepped out of the path of a falling pottedplant, but he couldn’t help smiling as he looked at his sister. Violet was tying her hairup in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes, a sure sign that she was thinking up aninvention. Violet’s impressive mechanical skills had saved the Baudelaires’ livesmore times than they could count, and Klaus was certain that his sister could concoctsomething that couldstop the caravan’s perilous journey.“Are you going to make a brake?” Klaus asked.“Not yet,” Violet said. “A brake interferes with the wheels of a vehicle, and thiscaravan’s wheels are spinning too quickly for interference. I’m going to unhook thesehammocks and use them as a drag chute.”“Drag chute?” Klaus said.“Drag chutes are a little like parachutes attached to the back of a car,” Violetexplained hurriedly, as a coatrack clattered around her. She reached up to thehammock where she and Klaus had slept and quickly detached it from the wall.“Race drivers use them to help stop their cars when a race is over. If I dangle thesehammocks out the caravan door, we should slow down considerably.”“What can I do?” Klaus said.“Look in Hugo’s pantry,” Violet said, “and see if you can find anything sticky.”When someone tells you to do something unusual without an explanation, it isvery difficult not to ask why, but Klaus had learned long ago to have faith in hissister’s ideas, and quickly crossed to a large cupboard Hugo had used to storeingredients for the meals he prepared. The door of the cupboard was swinging backand forth as if a ghost were fighting with it, but most of the items were still rattlingaround inside. Klaus looked at the cupboard and thought of his baby sister, who wasgetting farther and farther away from him. Even though Sunny was still quite young,she had recently shown an interest in cooking, and Klaus remembered how she hadmade up her own hot chocolate recipe, and helped prepare a delicious soup the entirecaravan had enjoyed. Klaus held the cupboard door open and peered inside, andhoped that his sister would survive to develop her culinary skills.“Klaus,” Violet said firmly, taking down another hammock and tying it to the firstone. “I don’t mean to rush you, but we need to stop this caravan as soon as possible.Have you found anything sticky?”Klaus blinked and returned to the task at hand. A ceramic pitcher rolled around hisfeet as he pushed through the bottles and jars of cooking materials. “There’s lots ofsticky things here,” he said. “I see blackstrap molasses, wild clover honey, cornsyrup, aged balsamic vinegar, apple butter, strawberry jam, caramel sauce, maplesyrup, butterscotch topping, maraschino liqueur, virgin and extra-virgin olive oil,lemon curd, dried apricots, mango chutney, crema di noci, tamarind paste, hotmustard, marshmallows, creamed corn, peanut butter, grape preserves, salt watertaffy, condensed milk, pumpkin pie filling, and glue. I don’t know why Hugo keptglue in the pantry, but never mind. Which items do you want?”“All of them,” Violet said firmly. “Find some way of mixing them, while I tiethese hammocks together.”Klaus grabbed the pitcher from the floor and began to pour the ingredients into it,while Violet, sitting on the floor to make it easier to balance, gathered the cords ofthe hammocks in her lap and began twisting them into a knot. The caravan’s journeygrew rougher and rougher, and with each jolt, the Baudelaires felt a bit seasick, as ifthey were back on Lake Lachrymose , crossing its stormy waters to try and rescueone of their many unfortunate guardians. But despite the tumult around them, inmoments Violet stood up with the hammocks gathered in her arms, all tied together ina mass of fabric, and Klaus looked at his sister and held up the pitcher, which wasfilled to the brim with a thick and colorful slime.“When I say the word,” Violet said, “I’m going to open the door and cast thesehammocks out. I want you at the other end of the caravan, Klaus. Open that littlewindow and pour that mixture all over the wheels. If the hammocks work as a dragchute and the sticky substance interferes with the wheels, the caravan should slowdown enough to save us. I just need to tie the hammocks to the doorknob.”“Are you using the Devil’s Tongue knot?” Klaus asked.“The Devil’s Tongue hasn’t brought us the best luck,” Violet said, referring toseveral previous rope-related escapades. “I’m using the Sumac, a knot I inventedmyself. I named it after a singer I admire. There — it feels secure. Are you ready topour that mixture onto the wheels?”Klaus crossed to the window and opened it. The wild clattering sound of thecaravan’s wheels grew louder, and the Baudelaires stared for a moment at thecountryside racing by. The land was jagged and twisty, and it seemed that the caravancould tumble at any moment into a hole, or off the edge of one of the mountain’ssquare peaks. “I guess I’m ready,” Klaus said hesitantly. “Violet, before we try yourinvention, I want to tell you something.”“If we don’t try it now,” Violet said grimly, “you won’t have the chance to tell meanything.” She gave her knot one more tug and then turned back to Klaus. “Now!”she said, and threw open the caravan door.It is often said that if you have a room with a view, you will feel peaceful andrelaxed, but if the room is a caravan hurtling down a steep and twisted road, and theview is an eerie mountain range racing backward away from you, while chillymountain winds sting your face and toss dust into your eyes, then you will not feelone bit of peace or relaxation. Instead you will feel the horror and panic that theBaudelaires felt when Violet opened the door. For a moment they could do nothingbut stand still, feeling the wild tilting of the caravan, and looking up at the odd,square peaks of the Mortmain Mountains, and hearing the grinding of the caravan’swheels as they rolled over rocks and tree stumps. But then Violet shouted “Now!”once more, and both siblings snapped into action. Klaus leaned out the window andbegan to pour the mixture of blackstrap molasses, wild clover honey, corn syrup,aged balsamic vinegar, apple butter, strawberry jam, caramel sauce, maple syrup,butterscotch topping, maraschino liqueur, virgin and extra-virgin olive oil, lemoncurd, dried apricots, mango chutney, crema di noci, tamarind paste, hot mustard,marshmallows, creamed corn, peanut butter, grape preserves, salt water taffy,condensed milk, pumpkin pie filling, and glue onto the closest wheels, while hissister tossed the hammocks out of the door, and if you have read anything of theBaudelaire orphans’ lives — which I hope you have not — then you will not besurprised to read that Violet’s invention worked perfectly. The hammocksimmediately caught the rushing air and swelled out behind the caravan like enormouscloth balloons, which slowed the caravan down quite a bit, the way you would runmuch slower if you were dragging something behind you, like a knapsack or asheriff. The sticky mixture fell on the spinning wheels, which immediately began tomove with less ferocity, the way you would run with less ferocity if you suddenlyfound yourself running in quicksand or through lasagne. The caravan slowed down,and the wheels spun less wildly, and within moments the two Baudelaires weretraveling at a much more comfortable pace.“It’s working!” Klaus cried.“We’re not done yet,” Violet said, and walked over to a small table that hadoverturned in the confusion. When the Baudelaires were living at Caligari Carnival,the table had come in handy as a place to sit and make plans, but now in theMortmain Mountains , it would come in handy for a different reason. Violet draggedthe table over to the open door. “Now that the wheels are slowing down,” she said,“we can use this as a brake.” Klaus dumped the last of the mixture out of the pitcher,and turned to his sister. “How?” he said, but Violet was already showing him how.Quickly she lay on the floor, and holding the table by its legs, dangled it out of thecaravan so it dragged on the ground. Immediately there was a loud scraping sound,and the table began to shake roughly in Violet’s hands. But she held fast, forcing thetable to scrape against the rocky ground and slow the caravan down even more. Theswaying of the caravan became gentler and gentler, and the fallen items owned by thecarnival employees stopped crashing, and then with one last whine, the wheelsstopped altogether, and everything was still. Violet leaned out of the door and stuckthe table in front of one of the wheels so it couldn’t start rolling again, and then stoodup and looked at her brother.“We did it,” Violet said.“You did it,” Klaus said. “The entire plan was your idea.” He put down the pitcheronthe floor and wiped his hands on a fallen towel.“Don’t put down that pitcher,” Violet said, looking around the wreckage of thecaravan.“We should gather up as many useful things as possible. We’ll need to get thiscaravan moving uphill if we want to rescue Sunny.”“And reach the headquarters,” Klaus added. “Count Olaf has the map we found,but I remember that the headquarters are in the Valley of Four Drafts, near the sourceof the Stricken Stream. It’ll be very cold there.”“Well, there is plenty of clothing,” Violet said, looking around. “Let’s grabeverything we can and organize it outside.”Klaus nodded in agreement, and picked up the pitcher again, along with severalitems of clothing that had fallen in a heap on top of a small hand mirror that belongedto Colette. Staggering from carrying so many things, he walked out of the caravanbehind his sister, who was carrying a large bread knife, three heavy coats, and aukulele that Hugo used to play sometimes on lazy afternoons. The floors of thecaravan creaked as the Baudelaires stepped outside, into the misty and emptylandscape, and realized how fortunate they had been.The caravan had stopped right at the edge of one of the odd, square peaks of themountain range. The Mortmain Mountains looked like a staircase, heading up intothe clouds or down into a veil of thick, gray mist, and if the caravan had kept going inthe same direction, the two Baudelaires would have toppled over the peak and fallendown through the mist to the next stair, far, far below. But to one side of the caravan,the children could see the waters of the Stricken Stream, which were an odd grayishblack color, and moved slowly and lazily downhill like a river of spilled oil. Had thecaravan swerved to one side, the children would have been dumped into the dark andfilthy waters.“It looks like the brake worked just in time,” Violet said quietly. “No matter wherethe caravan would have gone, we would have been finished.”Klaus nodded in agreement and looked around at the wilderness. “It will bedifficult to navigate the caravan out of here,” Klaus said. “You’ll have to invent asteering device.”“And some sort of engine,” Violet said. “That will take some time.”“We don’t have any time,” Klaus said. “If we don’t hurry, Count Olaf will be toofar away and we’ll never find Sunny.”“We’ll find her,” Violet said firmly, and put down the items she was carrying.“Let’s go back into the caravan, and look for — ”But before Violet could say what to look for, she was interrupted by an unpleasantcrackling noise. The caravan seemed to moan, and then slowly began to roll towardthe edge of the peak. The Baudelaires looked down and saw that the wheels hadsmashed the small table, so there was nothing to stop the caravan from moving again.Slowly and awkwardly it pitched forward, dragging the hammocks behind it as itneared the very edge of the peak. Klaus leaned down to grab hold of a hammock, butViolet stopped him. “It’s too heavy,” she said. “We can’t stop it.”“We can’t let it fall off the peak!” Klaus cried.“We’d be dragged down, too,” Violet said.Klaus knew his sister was right, but still he wanted to grab the drag chute Violethad constructed. It is difficult, when faced with a situation you cannot control, toadmit that you can do nothing, and it was difficult for the Baudelaires to stand andwatch the caravan roll over the edge of the peak. There was one last creak as the backwheels bumped against a mound of dirt, and then the caravan disappeared in absolutesilence. The Baudelaires stepped forward and peered over the edge of the peak, but itwas so misty that the caravan was only a ghostly rectangle, getting smaller andsmaller as it faded away.“Why isn’t there a crash?” Klaus asked.“The drag chute is slowing it down,” Violet said. “Just wait.”The siblings waited, and after a moment there was a muffled boom! from below asthe caravan met its fate. In the mist, the children could not see a thing, but they knewthat the caravan and everything inside it were gone forever, and indeed I have neverbeen able to find its remains, even after months of searching the area with only alantern and a rhyming dictionary for company. It seems that even after countlessnights of battling snow gnats and praying the batteries would not run out, it is my fatethat some of my questions will never be answered.Fate is like a strange, unpopular restaurant, filled with odd waiters who bring youthings you never asked for and don’t always like. When the Baudelaires were veryyoung, they would have guessed that their fate was to grow up in happiness andcontentment with their parents in the Baudelaire mansion, but now both the mansionand their parents were gone. When they were attending Prufrock Preparatory School ,they had thought that their fate was to graduate alongside their friends theQuagmires, but they hadn’t seen the academy or the two triplets in a very long time.And just moments ago, it had looked like Violet and Klaus’s fate had been to fall offa peak or into a stream, but now they were alive and well, but far away from theirsister and without a vehicle to help them find her again.Violet and Klaus moved closer to one another, and felt the icy winds of theMortmain Mountains blow down the road less traveled and give them goosebumps.They looked at the dark and swirling waters of the Stricken Stream, and they lookeddown from the edge of the peak into the mist, and then looked at one another andshivered, not only at the fates they had avoided, but at all the mysterious fates that layahead.Violet took one last look over the misty peak, and then reached down to put on oneof the heavy coats she had taken from the caravan. “Take one of these coats,” shesaid to her brother. “It’s cold out here, and it’s likely to get even colder. Theheadquarters are supposed to be very high up in the mountains. By the time we getthere, we’ll probably be wearing every stitch of this clothing.”“But how are we going to get there?” Klaus said. “We’re nowhere near the Valleyof Four Drafts, and the caravan is destroyed.”“Let’s take a moment to see what we have,” Violet said. “I might be able toconstruct something from the items we managed to take.”“I hope so,” Klaus said. “Sunny is getting farther and farther away. We’ll nevercatch up with her without some sort of vehicle.”Klaus spread out the items from the caravan, and put on one of the coats whileViolet picked through her pile, but instantly the two Baudelaires saw that a vehiclewas not in the realm of possibility, a phrase which here means “could not be madefrom a few small objects and some articles of clothing previously belonging tocarnival employees.” Violet tied her hair up in a ribbon again and frowned down onthe few items they had managed to save. In Klaus’s pile there was the pitcher, stillsticky from the substance he had used to slow down the caravan wheels, as well asColette’s hand mirror, a wool poncho, and a sweatshirt that read CALlGARlCARNIVAL. In Violet’s pile was the large bread knife, the ukulele, and one morecoat. Even Klaus, who was not as mechanically minded as his sister, knew that thematerials gathered on the ground were not enough to make something that could takethe two children through the Mortmain Mountains .“I suppose I could make a spark by rubbing two rocks together,” Violet said,looking around the misty countryside for additional inventing materials, “or we couldplay the ukulele and bang on the pitcher. A loud noise might attract some help.”“But who would hear it?” Klaus said, gazing at the gloomy mist. “We didn’t see asign of anyone else when we were in the caravan. The way through the MortmainMountains is like a poem I read once, about the road less traveled.”“Did the poem have a happy ending?” Violet asked.“It was neither happy nor unhappy,” Klaus said. “It was ambiguous. Well, let’sgather up these materials and take them with us.”“Take them with us?” Violet said. “We don’t know where to go, and we don’tknow how to get there.”“Sure we do,” Klaus said. “The Stricken Stream starts at a source high in themountains, and winds its way down through the Valley of Four Drafts, where theheadquarters are. It’s probably not the quickest or easiest way to get there, but if wefollow the stream up the mountains, it’ll take us where we want to go.”“But that could take days,” Violet said. “We don’t have a map, or any food orwater for the journey, or tents or sleeping bags or any other camping equipment.”“We can use all this clothing as blankets,” Klaus said, “and we can sleep in anyshelter we find. There were quite a few caves on the map that animals use forhibernation.”The two Baudelaires looked at one another and shivered in the chilly breeze. Theidea of hiking for hours in the mountains, only to sleep wrapped in someone else’sclothing in a cave that might contain hibernating animals, was not a pleasant one, andthe siblings wished they did not have to take the road less traveled, but instead couldtravel in a swift, well-heated vehicle and reach their sister in mere moments. Butwishing, like sipping a glass of punch, or pulling aside a bearskin rug in order toaccess a hidden trapdoor in the floor, is merely a quiet way to spend one’s timebefore the candles are extinguished on one’s birthday cake, and the Baudelaires knewthat it would be best to stop wishing and start their journey. Klaus put the hand mirrorand the ukulele in his coat pockets and picked up the poncho and the pitcher, whileViolet put the bread knife in her pocket and picked up the sweatshirt and the last coat,and then, with one last look at the tracks the caravan left behind as it toppled over thepeak, the two children began to follow the Stricken Stream.If you have ever traveled a long distance with a family member, then you knowthat there are times when you feel like talking and times when you feel like beingquiet. This was one of the quiet times. Violet and Klaus walked up the slopes of themountain toward the headquarters they hoped to reach, and they heard the sound ofthe mountain winds, a low, tuneless moan like someone blowing across the top of anempty bottle, and the odd, rough sound of the stream’s fish as they stuck their headsout of the dark, thick waters of the stream, but both travelers were in a quiet moodand did not say a word to one another, each lost in their own thoughts.Violet let her mind wander to the time she had spent with her siblings in theVillage of Fowl Devotees, when a mysterious man named Jacques Snicket wasmurdered, and the children were blamed for the crime. They had managed to escapefrom prison and rescue their friends Duncan and Isadora Quagmire from CountOlaf’s clutches, but then had been separated at the last moment from the two triplets,who sailed away in a self sustaining hot air mobile home built by a man namedHector. None of the Baudelaires had seen Hector or the two Quagmires since, andViolet wondered if they were safe and if they had managed to contact a secretorganization they’d discovered. The organization was called V.F.D., and theBaudelaires had not yet learned exactly what the organization did, or even what allthe letters stood for. The children thought that the headquarters at the Valley of FourDrafts might prove to be helpful, but now, as the eldest Baudelaire trudged alongsidethe Stricken Stream, she wondered if she would ever find the answers she waslooking for.Klaus was also thinking about the Quagmires, although he was thinking aboutwhen the Baudelaires first met them, at Prufrock Preparatory School . Many of thestudents at the school had been quite mean to the three siblings — particularly a verynasty girl named Carmelita Spats — but Isadora and Duncan had been very kind, andsoon the Baudelaires and the Quagmires had become inseparable, a word which heremeans “close friends.” One reason for their friendship had been that both sets ofchildren had lost people who were close to them. The Baudelaires had lost theirparents, of course, and the Quagmires had lost not only their parents but their brother,the third Quagmire triplet, whose name was Quigley. Klaus thought about theQuagmires’ tragedy, and felt a little guilty that one of his own parents might be aliveafter all. A document the Baudelaires had found contained a picture of their parentsstanding with Jacques Snicket and another man, with a caption reading “Because ofthe evidence discussed on page nine, experts now suspect that there may in fact beone survivor of the fire, but the survivor’s whereabouts are unknown.” Klaus had thisdocument in his pocket right now, along with a few scraps of the Quagmires’notebooks that they had managed to give him. Klaus walked beside his older sister,thinking of the puzzle of V.F.D. and how kindly the Quagmires had tried to help themsolve the mystery that surrounded them all. He was thinking so hard about thesethings that when Violet finally broke the silence, it was as if he were waking up froma long, confusing dream.“Klaus,” she said, “when we were in the caravan, you said you wanted to tell mesomething before we tried the invention, but I didn’t let you. What was it?”“I don’t know,” Klaus admitted. “I just wanted to say something, in case — well,in case the invention didn’t work.” He sighed, and looked up at the darkening sky. “Idon’t remember the last thing I said to Sunny,” he said quietly. “It must have beenwhen we were in Madame Lulu’s tent, or maybe outside, just before we stepped intothe caravan. Had I known that Count Olaf was going to take her away, I would havetried to say something special. I could have complimented her on the hot chocolateshe made, or told her how skillful she was at staying in disguise.”“You can tell her those things,” Violet said, “when we see her again.”“I hope so,” Klaus said glumly, “but we’re so far behind Olaf and his troupe.”“But we know where they’re going,” Violet said, “and we know that he won’tharm a hair on her head. Count Olaf thinks we perished in the caravan, so he needsSunny to get his hands on the fortune.”“She’s probably unharmed,” Klaus agreed, “but I’m sure she’s very frightened. Ijust hope she knows we’re coming after her.”“Me, too,” Violet said, and walked in a silence for a while, interrupted only by thewind and the odd, gurgling noise of the fish.“I think those fish are having trouble breathing,” Klaus said, pointing into thestream. “Something in the water is making them cough.”“Maybe the Stricken Stream isn’t always that ugly color,” Violet said. “Whatwould turn normal water into grayish black slime?”“Iron ore,” Klaus said thoughtfully, trying to remember a book on high-altitudeenvironmentalism he had read when he was ten. “Or perhaps a clay deposit, loosenedby an earthquake or another geological event, or some sort of pollution. There mightbe an ink or licorice factory nearby.”“Maybe V.F.D. will tell us,” Violet said, “when we reach the headquarters.”“Maybe one of our parents will tell us,” Klaus said quietly.“We shouldn’t get our hopes up,” Violet said. “Even if one of our parents reallydid survive the fire, and the V.F.D. headquarters really are at the Valley of FourDrafts, we still don’t know that we will see them when we arrive.”“I don’t see the harm in getting our hopes up,” Klaus said. “We’re walking along adamaged stream, toward a vicious villain, in an attempt to rescue our sister and findthe headquarters of a secret organization. I could use a little bit of hope right now.”Violet stopped in her path. “I could use another layer of clothing,” she said. “It’sgetting colder.”Klaus nodded in agreement, and held up the garment he was carrying. “Do youwant the poncho,” he asked, “or the sweatshirt?”“The poncho, if you don’t mind,” Violet said. “After my experience in the Houseof Freaks, I don’t wish to advertise the Caligari Carnival.”“Me neither,” Klaus said, taking the lettered sweatshirt from his sister. “I think I’llwear it inside out.”Rather than take off their coats and expose themselves to the icy winds of theMortmain Mountains , Klaus put on the inside-out sweatshirt over his coat, andViolet wore the poncho outside hers, where it hung awkwardly around her. The twoelder Baudelaires looked at one another and had to smile at their ridiculousappearance.“These are worse than the pinstripe suits Esmé Squalor gave us,” Violet said.“Or those itchy sweaters we wore when we stayed with Mr. Poe,” Klaus said,referring to a banker who was in charge of the Baudelaire fortune, with whom theyhad lost touch. “But at least we’ll keep warm. If it gets even colder, we can take turnswearing the extra coat.”“If one of our parents is at the headquarters,” Violet said, “he or she might notrecognize us underneath all this clothing. We’ll look like two large lumps.”The two Baudelaires looked up at the snow-covered peaks above them and felt abit dizzy, not only from the height of the Mortmain Mountains but from all thequestions buzzing around their heads. Could they really reach the Valley of FourDrafts all by themselves? What would the headquarters look like? Would V.F.D. beexpecting the Baudelaires? Would Count Olaf have reached the headquarters aheadof them? Would they find Sunny? Would they find one of their parents? Violet andKlaus looked at one another in silence and shivered in their strange clothes, untilfinally Klaus broke the silence with one more question, which seemed the dizziestone of all.“Which parent,” he said, “do you think is the survivor?”Violet opened her mouth to answer, but at that moment another questionimmediately occupied the minds of the elder Baudelaires. It is a dreadful question,and nearly everyone who has found themselves asking it has ended up wishing thatthey’d never brought up the subject. My brother asked the question once, and hadnightmares about it for weeks. An associate of mine asked the question, and foundhimself falling through the air before he could hear the answer. It is a question Iasked once, a very long time ago and in a very timid voice, and a woman replied byquickly putting a motorcycle helmet on her head and wrapping her body in a red silkcape. The question is, “What in the world is that ominous-looking cloud of tiny,white buzzing objects coming toward us?” and I’m sorry to tell you that the answer is“A swarm of well-organized, illtempered insects known as snow gnats, who live incold mountain areas and enjoy stinging people for no reason whatsoever.”“What in the world,” Violet said, “is that ominous-looking cloud of tiny, whitebuzzing objects coming toward us?”Klaus looked in the direction his sister was pointing and frowned. “I rememberreading something in a book on mountainous insect life,” he said, “but I can’t quiterecall the details.”“Try to remember,” Violet said, looking nervously at the approaching swarm. Theominous-looking cloud of tiny, white buzzing objects had appeared from around arocky corner, and from a distance it looked a bit like the beginnings of a snowfall.But now the snowfall was organizing itself into the shape of an arrow, and movingtoward the two children, buzzing louder and louder as if it were annoyed. “I thinkthey might be snow gnats,” Klaus said. “Snow gnats live in cold mountain areas andhave been known to group themselves into well-defined shapes.”Violet looked from the approaching arrow to the waters of the stream and the steepedge of the mountain peak. “I’m glad gnats are harmless,” she said. “It doesn’t looklike there’s any way to avoid them.”“There’s something else about snow gnats,” Klaus said, “that I’m not quiteremembering.”The swarm drew quite close, with the tip of the fluttering white arrow just a fewinches from the Baudelaires’ noses, and then stopped in its path, buzzing angrily. Thetwo siblings stood face-to-face with the snow gnats for a long, tense second, and thegnat at the very, very tip of the arrow flew daintily forward and stung Violet on thenose.“Ow!” Violet said. The snow gnat flew back to its place, and the eldest Baudelairewas left rubbing a tiny red mark on her nose. “That hurt,” she said. “It feels like a pinstuck me.”“I remember now,” Klaus said. “Snow gnats are ill-tempered and enjoy stingingpeople for no reason whatso — ”But Klaus did not get to finish his sentence, because the snow gnats interruptedand gave a ghastly demonstration of just what he was talking about. Curling lazily inthe mountain winds, the arrow twisted and became a large buzzing circle, and thegnats began to spin around and around the two Baudelaires like a well-organized andilltempered hula hoop. Each gnat was so tiny that the children could not see any of itsfeatures, but they felt as if the insects were smiling nastily.“Are the stings poisonous?” Violet asked.“Mildly,” Klaus said. “We’ll be all right if we get stung a few times, but manystings could make us very ill. Ow!”One of the gnats had flown up and stung Klaus on the cheek, as if it were seeing ifthe middle Baudelaire was fun to hurt. “People always say that if you don’t botherstinging insects, they won’t bother you,” Violet said nervously. “Ow!”“That’s scarcely ever true,” Klaus said, “and it’s certainly not true with snowgnats. Ow! Ow! Ow!”“What should we — Ow!” Violet half asked.“I don’t — Ow!” Klaus half answered, but in moments the Baudelaires did nothave time for even half a conversation. The circle of snow gnats began spinningfaster and faster, and the insects spread themselves out so it looked as if the twosiblings were in the middle of a tiny, white tornado. Then, in a series of maneuversthat must have taken a great deal of rehearsal, the gnats began stinging theBaudelaires, first on one side and then on the other. Violet shrieked as several gnatsstung her chin. Klaus shouted as a handful of gnats stung his left ear. And bothBaudelaires cried out as they tried to wave the gnats away only to feel the stingers allover their waving hands. The snow gnats stung to the left, and stung to the right.They approached the Baudelaires from above, making the children duck, and thenfrom below, making the children stand on tiptoe in an effort to avoid them. And allthe while, the swarm buzzed louder and louder, as if wishing to remind theBaudelaires how much fun the insects were having. Violet and Klaus closed theireyes and stood together, too scared to walk blindly and find themselves falling off amountain peak or sinking into the waters of the Stricken Stream.“Coat!” Klaus managed to shout, then spit out a gnat that had flown into his openmouth in the hopes of stinging his tongue. Violet understood at once, and grabbed theextra coat in her hands and draped it over Klaus and herself like a large, limpumbrella of cloth. The snow gnats buzzed furiously, trying to get inside to continuestinging them, but had to settle for stinging the Baudelaires’ hands as they held thecoat in place. Violet and Klaus looked at one another dimly underneath the coat,wincing as their fingers were stung, and tried to keep walking.“We’ll never reach the Valley of Four Drafts like this,” Violet said, speakinglouder than usual over the buzzing of the gnats. “How can we stop them, Klaus?”“Fire drives them away,” Klaus said. “In the book I read, the author said that eventhe smell of smoke can keep a whole swarm at bay. But we can’t start a fireunderneath a coat.”“Ow!” A snow gnat stung Violet’s thumb on a spot that had already been stung,just as the Baudelaires rounded the rocky corner where the swarm had first appeared.Through a worn spot in the fabric, the Baudelaires could just make out a dark,circular hole in the side of the mountain.“That must be an entrance to one of the caves,” Klaus said. “Could we start a firein there?”“Maybe,” Violet said. “And maybe we’d annoy a hibernating animal.”“We’ve already managed to annoy thousands of animals,” Klaus said, almostdropping the pitcher as a gnat stung his wrist. “I don’t think we have much choice. Ithink, we have to head into the cave and take our chances.”Violet nodded in agreement, but looked nervously at the entrance to the cave.Taking one’s chances is like taking a bath, because sometimes you end up feelingcomfortable and warm, and sometimes there is something terrible lurking around thatyou cannot see until it is too late and you can do nothing else but scream and cling toa plastic duck. The two Baudelaires walked carefully toward the dark, circular hole,making sure to stay clear of the nearby edge of the peak and pulling the coat tightlyaround them so the snow gnats could not find a way inside, but what worried themmost was not the height of the peak or the stingers of the gnats but the chances theywere taking as they ducked inside the gloomy entrance of the cave.The two Baudelaires had never been in this cave before, of course, and as far as Ihave been able to ascertain, they were never in it again, even on their way back downthe mountain, after they had been reunited with their baby sister and learned thesecret of Verbal Fridge Dialogue. And yet, as Violet and Klaus took their chances andwalked inside, they found two things with which they were familiar. The first wasfire. As they stood inside the entrance to the cave, the siblings realized at once thatthere was no need to worry about the snow gnats any longer, because they couldsmell nearby smoke, and even see, at a great distance, small orange flames toward theback of the cave. Fire, of course, was very familiar to the children, from the ashensmell of the remains of the Baudelaire mansion to the scent of the flames thatdestroyed Caligari Carnival. But as the snow gnats formed an arrow and darted awayfrom the cave and the Baudelaires took another step inside, Violet and Klaus foundanother familiar thing — a familiar person, to be exact, who they had thought theywould never see again.“Hey you cakesniffers!” said a voice from the back of the cave, and the sound wasalmost enough to make the two Baudelaires wish they had taken their chancessomeplace else.You may well wonder why there has been no account of Sunny Baudelaire in thefirst two chapters of this book, but there are several reasons why this is so. For onething, Sunny’s journey in Count Olaf’s car was much more difficult to research. Thetracks made by the tires of the car have vanished long ago, and so many blizzards andavalanches have occurred in the Mortmain Mountains that even the road itself haslargely disappeared. The few witnesses to Olaf’s journey have mostly died undermysterious circumstances, or were too frightened to answer the letters, telegrams, andgreeting cards I sent them requesting an interview. And even the litter that wasthrown out the window of Olaf’s car — the clearest sign that evil people have drivenby — was picked up off the road long before my work began. The missing litter is agood sign, as it indicates that certain animals of the Mortmain Mountains havereturned to their posts and are rebuilding their nests, but it has made it very hard forme to write a complete account of Sunny’s travels.But if you are interested in knowing how Sunny Baudelaire spent her time whileher siblings stopped the caravan, followed the path of the Stricken Stream, andstruggled against the snow gnats, there is another story you might read that describesmore or less the same situation. The story concerns a person named Cinderella.Cinderella was a young person who was placed in the care of various wicked peoplewho teased her and forced her to do all the chores. Eventually Cinderella was rescuedby her fairy godmother, who magically created a special outfit for Cinderella to wearto a ball where she met a handsome prince, married him soon afterward, and livedhappily ever after in a castle. If you substitute the name “Cinderella” with the name“Sunny Baudelaire,” and eliminate the fairy godmother, the special outfit, the ball,the handsome prince, the marriage, and living happily ever after in a castle, you willhave a clear idea of Sunny’s predicament.“I wish the baby orphan would stop that irritating crying,” Count Olaf said,wrinkling his one eyebrow as the car made another violent turn. “Nothing spoils anice car trip like a whiny kidnapping victim.”“I’m pinching her as often as I can,” Esmé Squalor said, and gave Sunny anotherpinch with her stylish fingernails, “but she still won’t shut up.”“Listen, toothy,” Olaf said, taking his eyes off the road to glare at Sunny. “If youdon’t stop crying, I’ll give you something to cry about.”Sunny gave a little whimper of annoyance, and wiped her eyes with her tiny hands.It was true that she had been crying for most of the day, thoroughout a long drive thateven the most dedicated of researchers would be unable to trace, and now as the sunset, she still had not been able to stop herself. But at Count Olaf’s words, she wasalmost more irritated than frightened. It is always tedious when someone says that ifyou don’t stop crying, they will give you something to cry about, because if you arecrying than you already have something to cry about, and so there is no reason forthem to give you anything additional to cry about, thank you very much. SunnyBaudelaire certainly felt she had sufficient reason to weep. She was worried about hersiblings, and wondered how they were going to stop the runaway caravan fromhurtling them to their doom. She was frightened for herself, now that Count Olaf haddiscovered her disguise, torn off her beard, and trapped her on Esmé‘s lap. And shewas in pain, from the constant pinching of the villain’s girlfriend. “No pinch,” shesaid to Esmé, but the wicked and stylish woman just frowned as if Sunny had spokennonsense.“When she’s not crying,” Esmé said, “the baby talks in some foreign language. Ican’t understand a thing she’s saying.”“Kidnapped children are never any fun,” said the hook-handed man, who wasperhaps Sunny’s least favorite of Olaf’s troupe. “Remember when we had theQuagmires in our clutches, boss? They did nothing but complain. They complainedwhen we put them in a cage. They complained when we trapped them inside afountain. Complain, complain, complain — I was so sick of them I was almost gladwhen they escaped from our clutches.”“Glad?” Count Olaf said with a snarl. “We worked hard to steal the Quagmirefortune, and we didn’t get a single sapphire. That was a real waste of time.”“Don’t blame yourself, Olaf,” said one of the white-faced women from the backseat. “Everybody makes mistakes.”“Not this time,” Olaf said. “With the two orphans squashed someplace underneatha crashed caravan and the baby orphan on your lap, the Baudelaire fortune is mine.And once we reach the Valley of Four Drafts and find the headquarters, all ourworries will be over.”“Why?” asked Hugo, the hunchbacked man who had previously been employed atthe carnival.“Yes, please explain,” said Kevin, another former carnival worker. At CaligariCarnival, Kevin had been embarrassed to be ambidextrous, but Esmé had lured himinto joining Olaf’s troupe by tying Kevin’s right hand behind his back, so no onewould know it was as strong as his left. “Remember, boss, we’re new to the troupe,so we don’t always know what’s going on.”“I remember when I first joined Olaf’s troupe,” the other white-faced woman said.“I’d never even heard of the Snicket file.”“Working for me is a hands-on learning experience,” Olaf said. “You can’t rely onme to explain everything to you. I’m a very busy man.”“I’ll explain it, boss,” said the hook-handed man. “Count Olaf, like any goodbusinessman, has committed a wide variety of crimes.”“But these stupid volunteers have gathered all sorts of evidence and filed it away,”Esmé said. “I tried to explain that crime is very in right now, but apparently theyweren’t interested.”Sunny wiped another tear from her eye and sighed. The youngest Baudelairethought she’d almost rather be pinched again than hear any more of Esmé Squalor’snonsense about what was in — the word that Esmé used for “fashionable” — andwhat was out.“We need to destroy those files, or Count Olaf could be arrested,” the hook-handedman said. “We have reason to believe that some of the files are at V.F.D.headquarters.”“What does V.F.D. stand for?” The voice of Colette came from the floor of theautomobile. Count Olaf had ordered her to use her skills as a carnival contortionist tocurl up at the feet of the other members of the troupe.“That’s top-secret information!” Olaf growled, to Sunny’s disappointment. “I usedto be a member of the organization myself, but I found it was more fun to be anindividual practitioner.”“What does that mean?” asked the hook-handed man.“It means a life of crime,” Esmé replied. “It’s very in right now.”“Wrong def.” Sunny could not help speaking through her tears. By “wrong def shemeant something along the lines of, ”An individual practitioner means someone whoworks alone, instead of with a group, and it has nothing to do with a life of crime,”and it made her sad that there was no one around who could understand her.A Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery Slope“There you go, babbling away,” Esmé said. “This is why I never want to havechildren. Except as servants, of course.”“This journey is easier than I thought,” Olaf said. “The map says we just have topass a few more caves.”“Is there an in hotel near the headquarters?” Esmé asked.“I’m afraid not, sweetheart,” the villain replied, “but I have two tents in the trunkof the car. We’ll be camping on Mount Fraught, the summit of the MortmainMountains .”“The summit?” Esmé said. “It’ll be cold at the highest peak.”“It’s true,” Olaf admitted, “but False Spring is on its way, so before long it’ll be abit warmer.”“But what about tonight?” Esmé Squalor said. “It is definitely not in for me to setup tents in the freezing cold.”Count Olaf looked at his girlfriend and began to laugh, and Sunny could smell thefoul breath of his nasty giggles. “Don’t be silly,” the villain said finally. “You’re notgoing to set up the tents, Esmé. You’re going to stay nice and toasty in the car. Thebucktoothed baby will set up the tents for us.”Now Olaf’s entire troupe laughed, and the car filled with the stench of so manyvillains’ bad breath. Sunny felt a few more tears roll down her face, and turned to thewindow so no one would see. The car’s windows were very dirty, but the youngestBaudelaire could see the strange, square peaks of the Mortmain Mountains and thedark waters of the Stricken Stream. By now the car had driven so high up in themountains that the stream was mostly ice, and Sunny looked at the wide stripe offrozen blackness and wondered where her siblings were, and if they were coming torescue her. She remembered the other time she had been in Count Olaf’s clutches,when the villain had tied her up, locked her in a cage and dangled her outside histower room as part of one of his schemes. It had been an absolutely terrifyingexperience for the youngest Baudelaire, and she often still had nightmares about thecreaking of he cage and the distant sight of her two siblings looking up at her fromCount Olaf’s backyard. But Violet had built a grappling hook to rescue her, andKlaus had done some important legal research to defeat Olaf’s scheme. As the cartook Sunny farther and farther away from her siblings, and she stared out at thelonesome terrain, she knew that they could save her again.“How long will we stay on Mount Fraught ?” Hugo asked.“Until I say so, of course,” Count Olaf replied.“You’ll soon find out that much of this job involves a lot of waiting around,” thehookhanded man said. “I usually keep something around to help pass the time, like adeck of cards or a large rock.”“It can be dull,” admitted one of the white-faced women, “and it can be dangerous.Several of our comrades have recently suffered terrible fates.”“It was worth it,” Count Olaf said nonchalantly, a word which here means “in atone of voice that indicated he didn’t care one bit about his deceased employees.”“Sometimes a few people need to die in fires or get eaten by lions, if it’s all for thegreater good.”“What’s the greater good?” asked Colette.“Money!” Esmé cried in greedy glee. “Money and personal satisfaction, and we’regoing to get both of those things out of this whimpering baby on my lap! Once wehave our hands on the Baudelaire fortune, we’ll have enough money to live a life ofluxury and plan several more treacherous schemes!”The entire troupe cheered, and Count Olaf gave Sunny a filthy grin, but did not sayanything more as the car raced up a steep, bumpy hill, and at last screeched to a halt,just as the last rays of the sun faded into the evening sky. “We’re here at last,” CountOlaf said, and handed the car keys to Sunny. “Get out, baby orphan. Unloadeverything from the trunk and set up the tents.”“And bring us some potato chips,” Esmé said, “so we’ll have something in to eatwhile we wait.”Esmé opened the door of the car, placed Sunny on the frozen ground, and slammedthe door shut again. Instantly, the chilly mountain air surrounded the youngestBaudelaire and made her shiver. It was so bitterly cold at the highest peak of theMortmain Mountains that her tears froze in their tracks, forming a tiny mask of ice allover her face. Unsteadily, Sunny rose to her feet and walked to the back of the car.She was tempted to keep walking, and escape from Olaf while he waited in the carwith his troupe. But where could she go? Sunny looked around at her surroundingsand could not see a place where a baby would be safe by herself.The summit of Mount Fraught was a small, flat square, and as Sunny walked to thetrunk of the car, she gazed off each edge of the square, feeling a bit dizzy from thegreat height. From three of the edges, she could see the square and misty peaks ofsome of the other mountains, most of which were covered in snow, and twistingthrough the peaks were the strange, black waters of the Stricken Stream, and therocky path that the car had driven along. But from the fourth side of the square peak,Sunny saw something so strange it took her a moment to figure out what it was.Extending from the highest peak in the Mortmain Mountains was a glittering whitestrip, like an enormous piece of shiny paper folded downward, or the wing of sometremendous bird. Sunny watched the very last rays of the sunset reflect off thisenormous surface and slowly realized what it was: the source of the Stricken Stream.Like many streams, the Stricken Stream originated within the rocks of themountains, and in the warmer season, Sunny could see that it cascaded down fromthe highest peak in an enormous waterfall. But this was not a warm time of year, andjust as Sunny’s tears had frozen on her face, the waterfall had frozen solid, into along, slippery slope that disappeared into the darkness below. It was such an eeriesight that it took Sunny a moment to wonder why the ice was white, instead of blacklike the waters of the Stricken Stream.Honk! A loud blast from Count Olaf’s horn made Sunny remember what she wassupposed to be doing, and she hurriedly opened the trunk and found a bag of potatochips, which she brought back to the car. “That took a very long time, orphan,” saidOlaf, rather than “Thank you.” “Now go set up the tents, one for Esmé and me andone for my troupe, so we can get some sleep.”“Where is the baby going to stay?” asked the hook-handed man. “I don’t want herin my tent. I hear that babies can creep up and steal your breath while you’resleeping.”“Well, she’s certainly not sleeping with me,” Esmé said. “It’s not in to have a babyin your tent.”“She’s not going to sleep in either tent,” Olaf decided. “There’s a large coveredcasserole dish in the trunk. She can sleep in there.”“Will she be safe in a casserole dish?” Esmé said. “Remember, Olaf honey, if shedies then we can’t get our hands on the fortune.”“There are a few holes in the top so she can breathe,” Olaf said, “and the coverwill protect her from the snow gnats.”“Snow gnats?” asked Hugo.“Snow gnats are well-organized, ill-tempered insects,” Count Olaf explained,“who live in cold mountain areas and enjoy stinging people for no reason whatsoever.I’ve always been fond of them.”“Nonat,” Sunny said, which meant “I didn’t notice any such insects outside,” butno one paid any attention.“Won’t she run away if no one’s watching her?” asked Kevin.“She wouldn’t dare,” Count Olaf said, “and even if she tried to survive in themountains by herself, we could see where she went. That’s why we’re staying here atthe summit. We’ll know if the brat escapes, or if anyone’s coming after us, becausewe can see everything and everyone for miles and miles.”“Eureka,” Sunny said, before she could stop herself. She meant something alongthe lines of, “I’ve just realized something,” but she had not meant to say it out loud.“Stop your babbling and get busy, you fanged brat!” Esmé Squalor said, andslammed the car door shut. Sunny could hear the laughing of the troupe and thecrunching of potato chips as she walked slowly back to the trunk to find the tents.It is often quite frustrating to arrange all of the cloth and the poles so that a tentworks correctly, which is why I have always preferred to stay in hotels or rentedcastles, which also have the added attractions of solid walls and maid service. Sunny,of course, had the extra disadvantages of trying to do it herself, in the dark, when shewas still fairly new at walking and was worried about her siblings. But the youngestBaudelaire had a history of performing Herculean tasks, a phrase which here means“managing to do incredibly difficult things.” As I’m sure you know, if you are everforced to do something very difficult, it often helps to think of something inspiring tokeep you going. When Sunny had engaged in a sword-and-tooth fight at LuckySmells Lumbermill, for instance, she thought of how much she cared for her siblings,and it helped her defeat the evil Dr. Orwell. When Sunny climbed up an elevatorshaft at 667 Dark Avenue , she had concentrated on her friends the Quagmires, andhow much she wanted to rescue them, and before too long she had reached thepenthouse apartment. So, as Sunny dug a hole in the frozen ground with her teeth sothe tent poles would stay in place, she thought of something that inspired her, andoddly enough it was something that Count Olaf had said, about being able to seeeverything and everyone for miles and miles. As Sunny assembled the tents, andgazed down every so often at the slippery slope of the frozen waterfall, she decidedthat she would not try to sneak away from Olaf and his troupe. She would not to tryto sneak anywhere. Because if you could see everything and everyone from MountFraught, that also meant everything and everyone, including Violet and KlausBaudelaire, would be able to see her.C H A P T E RFourThat night was a dark day. Of course, all nights are dark days, because night issimply a badly lit version of day, due to the fact that the Earth travels around andaround the sun reminding everyone that it is time to get out of bed and start the daywith a cup of coffee or a secret message folded up into a paper airplane that can sailout the barred window of a ranger station. But in this case, the phrase “a dark day”means “a sad time in the history of the Baudelaire children, V.F.D., and all kind,brave, and wellread people in the world.” But Violet and Klaus Baudelaire, of course,had no idea of the catastrophe occurring high above them in the Valley of FourDrafts. All they knew was that they were hearing a voice they had hoped never tohear again.“Go away, cakesniffers!” the voice said. “This is a private cave!”“Who are you talking to, Carmelita?” asked another voice. This voice was muchlouder, and sounded like it belonged to a grown man.“I can see two shadows in the entrance of the cave, Uncle Bruce,” said the firstvoice, “and to me they look like cakesniffers.”The back of the cave echoed with giggling, and Violet and Klaus looked at oneanother in dismay. The familiar voice belonged to Carmelita Spats, the nasty little girlwhom the Baudelaires had encountered at Prufrock Preparatory School . Carmelitahad taken an instant dislike to the three siblings, calling them unpleasant names andgenerally making life miserable at the academy. If you have ever been a student, thenyou know that there is usually one such person at every school and that once youhave graduated you hope never to see them again. The two elder Baudelaires hadenough troubles in the Mortmain Mountains without running into this unpleasantperson, and at the sound of her voice they almost turned around and took theirchances once more with the snow gnats swarming outside.“Two shadows?” asked the second voice. “Identify yourselves, please.”“We’re mountain travelers,” Violet called from the entrance. “We lost our way andran into a swarm of snow gnats. Please let us rest here for a moment, while the smellof smoke scares them away, and then we’ll be on our way.”“Absolutely not!” replied Carmelita, who sounded even nastier than usual. “This iswhere the Snow Scouts are camping, on their way to celebrate False Spring andcrown me queen. We don’t want any cakesniffers spoiling our fun.”“Now, now, Carmelita,” said the voice of the grown man. “Snow Scouts aresupposed to be accommodating, remember? It’s part of the Snow Scout AlphabetPledge. And it would be very accommodating of us to offer these strangers the shelterof our cave.”“I don’t want to be accommodating,” Carmelita said. “I’m the False Spring Queen,so I get to do whatever I want.”“You’re not the False Spring Queen yet, Carmelita,” came the patient voice of ayoung boy. “Not until we dance around the Spring-pole. Do come in, travelers, andsit by the fire. We’re happy to accommodate you.”“That’s the spirit, kid,” said the voice of the grown man. “Come on, Snow Scouts,let’s all say the Snow Scout Alphabet Pledge together.”Instantly the cave echoed with the sound of many voices speaking in perfectunison, a phrase which here means “reciting a list of very odd words at the very sametime.”“Snow Scouts,” recited the Snow Scouts, “are accommodating, basic, calm,darling, emblematic, frisky, grinning, human, innocent, jumping, kept, limited, meek,naploving, official, pretty, quarantined, recent, scheduled, tidy, understandable,victorious, wholesome, xylophone, young, and zippered — every morning, everyafternoon, every night, and all day long!”The two Baudelaires looked at one another in confusion. Like many pledges, theSnow Scout Alphabet Pledge had not made much sense, and Violet and Klaus tried toimagine how a scout could be “calm” and “meek” at the same time as being “frisky”and “jumping,” or how all these children could avoid being “young” or “human,”even if they wanted to. They couldn’t figure out why the pledge suggested being allthese things “every morning,” “every afternoon,” and “every night,” and then added“all day long,” or why the word “xylophone” appeared in the pledge at all. But theydid not have much time to wonder, because when the pledge was over, the SnowScouts all took a big breath and made a long, airy sound, as if they were imitating thewind outside, and this seemed even more strange.“That’s my favorite part,” said the voice of the grown man, when the sound fadedaway. “There’s nothing like ending the Snow Scout Alphabet Pledge with a snowysound. Now approach, travelers, so we can get a look at you.”“Let’s keep the coat over our faces,” Klaus whispered to his sister. “Carmelitamight recognize us.”“And the other scouts have probably seen our pictures in The Daily Punctilio”Violet said, and ducked her head underneath the coat. The Daily Punctilio was anewspaper that had published a story blaming the three Baudelaires for JacquesSnicket’s murder. The story was utter nonsense, of course, but it seemed thateveryone in the world had believed it and was searching for the Baudelaires to putthem in jail. As the two siblings walked toward the voices of the Snow Scouts,however, they realized that they weren’t the only ones concealing their faces.The back of the cave was like a large, circular room, with very high ceilings andcraggy walls of rock that flickered in the orange light of the flames. Seated in a circlearound the fire were fifteen or twenty people, all looking up at the two Baudelaires.Through the fabric of the coat, the children could see that one person was much tallerthan the others — this was probably Bruce — and was wearing an ugly plaid coatand holding a large cigar. On the opposite side of the circle was someone wearing athick wool sweater with several large pockets, and the rest of the Snow Scouts werewearing bright white uniforms with enormous zippers down the front and emblems ofsnowflakes, in all different sizes and shapes, along the long, puffy sleeves. On theback of the uniforms, the Baudelaires could see the words of the Snow ScoutAlphabet Pledge printed in large pink letters, and on the top of everyone’s heads werewhite headbands with tiny plastic snowflakes sticking out of the top in all directionsand the word “Brr!” written in icy script. But Violet and Klaus weren’t looking at theplastic flurries of snow on the Snow Scouts’ heads, or the accommodating, basic,calm, darling, emblematic, frisky, grinning, human, innocent, jumping, kept, limited,meek, nap-loving, official, pretty, quarantined, recent, scheduled, tidy,understandable, victorious, wholesome, xylophone, young, and zippered uniformsthat most everyone was wearing. They were looking at the dark, round masks thatwere covering the scouts’ faces. The masks were covered in tiny holes, much likemasks worn for fencing, a sport in which people swordfight for fun rather than forhonor or in order to rescue a writer who has been taped to the wall. But in theflickering light of the cave, the Baudelaires could not see the holes, and it looked likethe faces of Bruce and the Snow Scouts had vanished, leaving a dark and empty holeabove their necks.“You cakesniffers look ridiculous,” said one of the scouts, and the Baudelairesknew at once which masked figure was Carmelita Spats. “Your faces are all coveredup.”“We’re meek,” Violet said, thinking quickly. “In fact, we’re so meek that wehardly ever show our faces.”“Then you’ll fit in just fine,” said Bruce from behind his mask. “The name’sBruce, but you can call me Uncle Bruce, although I’m almost certainly not your realuncle. Welcome to the Snow Scouts, travelers, where all of us are meek. In fact,we’re accommodating, basic, calm …”The other Snow Scouts all joined in the pledge, and the two elder Baudelairesstood through another rendition of the absurd list, while the scout in the sweater stoodup and stepped toward them. “We have some spare masks over there,” he murmuredquietly, and gestured toward a large pile of equipment, stacked beside a very longwooden pole. “They’ll keep the snow gnats away when you go back outside. Helpyourself.”“Thank you,” Violet replied, as the scouts promised to be kept, limited, and meek.She and her brother quickly grabbed masks and put them on underneath the coat, sothat by the time the scouts vowed to be xylophone, young, and zippered, they lookedas faceless as everyone else in the cave.“That was fun, kids,” said Bruce, as the snowy sound faded and the pledge wasover.“Now why don’t you two join the Snow Scouts? We’re an organization for youngpeople to have fun and learn new things. Right now we’re on a Snow Scout Hike.We’re going to hike all the way up to Mount Fraught in order to celebrate FalseSpring.”“What’s False Spring?” Violet asked, sitting down between her brother and thesweatered scout.“Anybody who’s not a cakesniffer knows what False Spring is,” Carmelita said ina scornful voice. “It’s when the weather gets unusually warm before getting very coldagain. We celebrate it with a fancy dance where we spin around and around theSpringpole.” She pointed to the wooden pole, and the Baudelaires noticed that the SnowScouts all wore bright white mittens, each emblazoned with an S. “When the dance isover, we choose the best Snow Scout and crown her the False Spring Queen. This time,it’s me. In fact, it’s always me.”“That’s because Uncle Bruce is really your uncle,” said one of the other SnowScouts.“No, it’s not,” Carmelita insisted. “It’s because I’m the most accommodating,basic, calm, darling, emblematic, frisky, grinning, human, innocent, jumping, kept,limited, meek, nap-loving, official, pretty, quarantined, recent, scheduled, tidy,understandable, victorious, wholesome, xylophone, young, and zippered.”“How can anyone be ‘xylophone’?” Klaus couldn’t help asking. “‘Xylophone’isn’t even an adjective.”“Uncle Bruce couldn’t think of another word that began with X,” explained thesweatered Snow Scout, in a tone of voice indicating that he thought this wasn’t a verygood excuse.“How about ‘xenial’?” Klaus suggested. “It’s a word that means — ”“You can’t change the words of the Snow Scout Alphabet Pledge,” Bruceinterrupted, moving his cigar toward his face as if he were going to try to smoke itthrough the mask. “The whole point of the Snow Scouts is that you do the same thingover and over. We celebrate False Spring over and over, on Mount Fraught , at thesource of the Stricken Stream. My niece Carmelita Spats is False Spring Queen, overand over. And over and over, we stop here in this cave for Snow Scout Story Time.”“I read that the caves of the Mortmain Mountains contained hibernating animals,”Klaus said. “Are you sure it’s safe to stop here?”The Snow Scout who was wearing a sweater instead of a uniform turned his headquickly to the Baudelaires, as if he was going to speak, but Bruce answered first. “It’ssafe now, kid,” he said. “Years ago, apparently these mountains were crawling withbears. The bears were so intelligent that they were trained as soldiers. But theydisappeared and no one knows why.”“Not bears,” the scout in the sweater said, so quietly that the two Baudelaires hadto lean in to hear him. “Lions lived in these caves. And they weren’t soldiers. Thelions were detectives — volunteer feline detectives.” He turned so his mask wasfacing the two siblings, and the children knew he must be staring at them through theholes. “Volunteer Feline Detectives,” he said again, and the Baudelaires almostgasped.“Did you say — ” Violet said, but the sweatered Snow Scout shook his head as if itwas not safe to talk. Violet looked at her brother and then at the scout, wishing shecould see both of their faces behind their masks. The initials of “Volunteer FelineDetectives,” of course, spelled “V.F.D.,” the name of the organization they werelooking for. But were these initials a coincidence, as they had seemed to be so manytimes? Or was this mysterious scout giving them some sort of signal?“I don’t know what you kids are muttering about,” Bruce said, “but stop it thisinstant. It’s not time for conversation. It’s Snow Scout Story Time, when one SnowScout tells a story to the other Snow Scouts. Then we’ll all eat marshmallows untilwe feel sick and go to sleep on a heap of blankets, just like we do every year. Whydon’t our new scouts tell the first story?”“I should tell the first story,” whined Carmelita. “After all, I’m the False SpringQueen.”“But I’m sure the travelers will have a wonderful story to tell,” the sweatered scoutsaid. “I’d love to hear a Very Fascinating Drama.”Klaus saw his sister raise her hands to her head and smiled. He knew Violet hadinstinctively begun to tie her hair up in a ribbon to help her think, but it wasimpossible to do so with a mask on. Both the Baudelaire minds were racing to figureout a way to communicate with this mysterious scout, and the children were so lost inthought that they scarcely heard Carmelita Spats insulting them.“Stop sitting around, cakesniffers,” Carmelita said. “If you’re going to tell us astory, get started.”“I’m sorry for the delay,” Violet said, choosing her words as carefully as shecould. “We haven’t had a Very Fun Day, so it’s difficult to think of a good story.”“I didn’t realize this was a sad occasion,” said the sweatered scout.“Oh, yes,” Klaus said. “We’ve had nothing to eat all day except for someVinegar- Flavored Doughnuts.”“And then there were the snow gnats,” Violet said. “They behaved like ViolentFrozen Dragonflies.”“When they form an arrow,” Klaus said, “they’re more like a Voracious FierceDragon.”“Or a Vain Fat Dictator, I imagine,” the scout in the sweater said, and gave theBaudelaires a masked nod as if he had received their message.“This is the most boring story I have ever heard,” Carmelita Spats said. “UncleBruce, tell these two that they’re both cakesniffers.”“Well, it wouldn’t be very accommodating to say so,” Bruce said, “but I mustadmit that the story you were telling was a little dull, kids. When Snow Scouts tellstories, they skip everything boring and only tell the interesting parts. That way, thestory can be as accommodating, basic, calm, darling, emblematic, frisky, grinning,human, innocent, jumping, kept, limited, meek, nap-loving, official, pretty,quarantined, recent, scheduled, tidy, understandable, victorious, wholesome,xylophone, young, and zippered as possible.”“I’ll show these cakesniffers how to tell an interesting story,” Carmelita said.“Once upon a time, I woke up and looked in the mirror, and there I saw the prettiest,smartest, most darling girl in the whole wide world. I put on a lovely pink dress tomake myself look even prettier, and I skipped off to school where my teacher told meI looked more adorable than anyone she had ever seen in her entire life, and she gaveme a lollipop as a special present…”At this point, I will take a page from someone’s book, a phrase which here means“adopt an idea used by somebody else.” If, for instance, a man told you that the bestway to write thank-you notes is to reward yourself with a cookie every time youfinished one, you might take a page from his book, and have a plate of cookiesnearby after your birthday or some other gift-giving occasion. If a girl told you thatthe best way to sneak out of the house late at night is to make sure everyone else issound asleep, you might take a page from her book and mix a sleeping potion intoeveryone else’s after-dinner coffee before climbing down the ivy that grows outsideyour bedroom window. And if you have been reading this miserable story, then thenext time you find yourself in a similar situation, you might take a page from TheSlippery Slope and use a combination of sticky substances and a drag chute to slowdown a racing caravan, and then retrieve several articles of heavy clothing in order toprotect yourself from the cold, and find a cave full of Snow Scouts gathered around afire when the snow gnats begin to swarm.But I will be taking a page from Bruce’s book, when he suggested that a storytelleronly tell the interesting parts of the story and skip everything boring. Certainly thetwo elder Baudelaires wished they could skip this boring part of their own story, asthey were very eager to leave the cave and resume their search for their sister. ButViolet and Klaus knew that they shouldn’t leave the cave until they could talk to themysterious boy in the sweater, and that they couldn’t talk to the mysterious boy in thesweater in front of Bruce and the other Snow Scouts, and so they sat by the fire asCarmelita Spats talked on and on about how pretty and smart and darling she was andhow everyone she met told her that she was unbelievably adorable. Although theBaudelaires had to sit through these tedious portions of their story, there is no reasonfor you to do so, and so I will skip ahead, past the tiresome details of Carmelita’sendless story, and the senseless pledge that Bruce made everyone say several moretimes, and the all-marshmallow meal that the scouts shared with the two siblings. Iwill skip how irksome it was for Violet and Klaus to turn away from the scouts,quickly lift their masks, and pop marshmallows into their mouths before coveringtheir faces again so they would not be recognized. After their long, tiring journey, thechildren would have preferred a more substantial supper and a less complicated wayof eating it, but the siblings could not skip these parts of their story, so they had towait for the evening to pass and for all the other Snow Scouts to feel sick and arrangeblankets into a large heap beside the Springpole. Even when Bruce led the SnowScouts in one more alphabet pledge as a way of saying good night, Violet and Klausdared not get up and talk to the sweatered scout for fear of being overheard, and theyhad to wait for hours, too curious and anxious to sleep, as the fire died down and thecave echoed with the sounds of Snow Scout snoring. But I will take a page from thebook of the Snow Scout leader, and skip ahead to the next interesting thing thathappened, which was very, very late at night, when so many interesting parts ofstories happen and so many people miss them because they are asleep in their beds,or hiding in the broom closet of a mustard factory, disguised as a dustpan to fool thenight watchwoman.It was very late at night — in fact one might say that it was the darkest part of thisdark day — and it was so late that the Baudelaires had almost given up on stayingawake, particularly after such an exhausting day, but just as the two siblings werebeginning to fall asleep, they each felt a hand touch them on the shoulder, and theyquickly sat up and found themselves looking into the masked face of the sweateredscout. “Come with me, Baudelaires,” the boy said in a very quiet voice. “I know ashortcut to the headquarters,” and this was an interesting part of the story indeed.C H A P T E RFiveWhen you have many questions on your mind, and you suddenly have anopportunity to ask them, the questions tend to crowd together and trip over oneanother, much like passengers on a crowded train when it reaches a popular station.With Bruce and the Snow Scouts asleep, the two elder Baudelaires finally had anopportunity to talk with the mysterious scout in the sweater, but everything theywanted to ask seemed hopelessly entangled.“How — ” Violet started, but the question “How did you know we were theBaudelaires?” stumbled against the question “Who are you?” and fell back againstthe questions “Are you a member of V.F.D.?” and “What does V.F.D. stand for?”“Do — ” Klaus said, but the question “Do you know where our sister is?” trippedover the question “Do you know if one of our parents is alive?” which was alreadystruggling with “How can we get to the headquarters?” and “Will my sisters and Iever find a safe place to live without constantly being threatened by Count Olaf andhis troupe as they hatch plan after plan to steal the Baudelaire fortune?” although themiddle Baudelaire knew that his last question was unlikely to be answered at all.“I’m sure you have lots of questions,” the boy whispered, “but we can’t talk here.Bruce is a light sleeper, and he’s caused V.F.D. enough trouble already withoutlearning another of our secrets. I promise all your questions will be answered, butfirst we’ve got to get to the headquarters. Come with me.”Without another word, the sweatered scout turned around, and the Baudelaires sawhe was wearing a backpack inscribed with an insignia they had seen at CaligariCarnival. At first glance, this insignia merely appeared to be an eye, but the childrenhad discovered that if you looked closely you could see the initials V.F.D., cleverlyhidden in the drawing. The scout began to walk, and the two siblings got out of theirblankets as quietly as they could and followed him. To their surprise, he did not leadthem toward the cave entrance, but to the back of the cave, where the Snow Scouts’fire had been. Now it was nothing more than a pile of gray ashes, although it was stillvery warm, and the smell of smoke was still in the air. The sweatered scout reachedinto his pocket and brought out a flashlight.“I had to wait for the fire to die down before I showed you,” he said, and with anervous glance at the sleeping scouts, turned the flashlight on and shone it abovethem. “Look.” Violet and Klaus looked, and saw that there was a hole in the ceiling,big enough for a person to crawl through. The last wisps of smoke from the fire werefloating up into the hole.“A chimney,” Klaus murmured. “I was wondering why the fire didn’t fill the cavewith smoke.”“The official name is Vertical Flame Diversion,” the scout whispered. “It serves asa chimney and as a secret passageway. It runs from this cave to the Valley of FourDrafts. If we climb up there, we can reach headquarters within hours, instead ofhiking all the way up the mountain. Years ago, there was a metal pole that ran downthe center of the hole, so people could slide down and hide in this cave in case of anemergency. The pole is gone now, but there should be carved toeholds in the sides toclimb all the way up.” He shone the flashlight on the cave wall, and sure enough, theBaudelaires could see two rows of small carved holes, perfect for sticking one’s feetand hands into.“How do you know all this?” Violet asked.The scout looked at her for a moment, and it seemed to the Baudelaires that he wassmiling behind his mask. “I read it,” he said, “in a book called RemarkablePhenomena of the Mortmain Mountains .”“That sounds familiar,” Klaus said.“It should,” the scout replied. “I borrowed it from Dr. Montgomery’s library.”Dr. Montgomery was one of the Baudelaires’ first guardians, and at the mention ofhis name Violet and Klaus found they had several more questions they wanted to ask.“When — ” Violet started.“Why — ” Klaus started.“Carm — ” Another voice startled the Baudelaires and the scout — the voice ofBruce, waking up halfway at the sound of the conversation. All three children frozefor a moment, as Bruce turned over on his blanket, and with a long sigh, went back tosleep.“We’ll talk when we reach the headquarters ” the scout whispered. “The VerticalFlame Diversion is very echoey, so we’ll have to be absolutely silent as we climb, orthe echoing noise will alert Bruce and the Snow Scouts. It’ll be very dark inside, soyou’ll have to feel against the wall for the footholds, and the air will be smoky, but ifyou keep your masks on they’ll filter the air and make it easier to breathe. I’ll go firstand lead the way. Are you ready?”Violet and Klaus turned toward one another. Even though they could not see eachother’s faces through the masks, both siblings knew that they were not at all ready.Following a complete stranger into a secret passageway through the center of themountains, toward a headquarters they could not even be sure existed, did not seemlike a very safe thing to do. The last time they had agreed to take a risky journey,their baby sister had been snatched away from them. What would happen this time,when they were all alone with a mysterious masked figure in a dark and smoky hole?“I know it must be hard to trust me, Baudelaires,” said the sweatered scout, “afterso many people have done you wrong.”“Can you give us a reason to trust you?” Violet said.The scout looked down for a moment, and then turned his mask to face bothBaudelaires. “One of you mentioned the word ‘xenial,’” he said, “when you weretalking with Bruce about that silly pledge. ‘Xenial’ is a word which refers to thegiving of gifts to a stranger.”“He’s right,” Klaus murmured to his sister.“I know that having a good vocabulary doesn’t guarantee that I’m a good person,”the boy said. “But it does mean I’ve read a great deal. And in my experience, wellread people are less likely to be evil.”Violet and Klaus looked at one another through their masks. Neither of them wereentirely convinced by what the masked scout had said. There are, of course, plenty ofevil people who have read a great many books, and plenty of very kind people whoseem to have found some other method of spending their time. But the Baudelairesknew that there was a kind of truth to the boy’s statement, and they had to admit thatthey preferred to take their chances with a stranger who knew what the word “xenial”meant, rather than exiting the cave and trying to find the headquarters all bythemselves. So the siblings turned back to the scout, nodded their masks, andfollowed him to the footholds in the wall, making sure they still had all the itemsfrom the caravan with them. The footholds were surprisingly easy to use, and in ashort time the Baudelaires were following the mysterious scout into the dark andsmoky entrance of the passageway.The Vertical Flame Diversion that connected the Mortmain Mountain headquartersto this particular Volunteer Feline Detectives cave was once one of the most heavilyguarded secrets in the world. Anyone who wanted to use it had to correctly answer aseries of questions concerning the force of gravity, the habits of carnivorous beasts,and the central themes of Russian novels, so very few people even knew thepassageway’s exact whereabouts. Until the two Baudelaires’ journey, the passagewayhad not been used for many years, ever since one of my comrades removed the polein order to use it in the construction of a submarine. So it would be accurate to saythat the Vertical Flame Diversion was a road less traveled — even less traveled thanthe path through the Mortmain Mountains on which this book began.While the elder Baudelaires had a very good reason to be on the road less traveled,as they were in a great hurry to reach the headquarters and rescue their sister from theclutches of Count Olaf, there is no reason whatsoever why you should be on the roadless traveled and choose to read the rest of this woeful chapter, which describes theirdark and smoky journey.The ashen air from the Snow Scouts’ fire was difficult to breathe, even through themasks, and Violet and Klaus had to struggle not to cough, knowing that the coughingsound would echo down the passageway and wake up Bruce, but there is no reasonfor you to struggle through my dismal description of this problem. A number ofspiders had noticed the footholds were not being used lately, and had moved in andconverted them into spider condominiums, but you are under no obligation to readwhat happens when spiders are suddenly woken up by the sudden appearance of aclimbing foot in their new homes. And as the Baudelaires followed the scout fartherand farther up, the strong freezing winds from the top of the mountain would rushthrough the passageway, and all three youngsters would cling to the footholds withtheir very lives, hoping that the wind would not blow them back down to the cavefloor, but although the Baudelaires found it necessary to keep climbing through therest of the dark day so they could reach the headquarters as quickly as possible, and Ifind it necessary to finish describing it, so my account of the Baudelaire case is asaccurate and as complete as possible, it is not necessary for you to finish reading therest of this chapter, so you can be as miserable as possible. My description of theBaudelaires’ journey up through the road less traveled begins on the next page, but Ibeg you not to travel along with them. Instead, you may take a page from Bruce’sbook, and skip ahead to Chapter Six, and find my report on Sunny Baudelaire’stribulations — a word which here means “opportunities to eavesdrop while cookingfor a theater troupe” — with Count Olaf, or you may skip ahead to Chapter Seven,when the elder Baudelaires arrive at the site of the V.F.D. headquarters and unmaskthe stranger who led them there, or you may take the road very frequently traveledand skip away from this book altogether, and find something better to do with yourtime besides finishing this unhappy tale and becoming a weary, weeping, and wellread person.The Baudelaires’ journey up the Vertical Flame Diversion was so dark andtreacherous that it is not enough to write “The Baudelaires’ journey up the VerticalFlame Diversion was so dark and treacherous that it is not enough to write ‘TheBaudelaires’ journey up the Vertical Flame Diversion was so dark and treacherousthat it is not enough to write ”The Baudelaires’ journey up the Vertical FlameDiversion was so dark and treacherous that it is not enough to write ‘The Baudelaires’journey up the Vertical Flame Diversion was so dark and treacherous that it is notenough to write “My dear sister, I am taking a great risk in hiding a letter to youinside one of my books, but I am certain that even the most melancholy and well-readpeople in the world have found my account of the lives of the three Baudelairechildren even more wretched than I had promised, and so this book will stay on theshelves of libraries, utterly ignored, waiting for you to open it and find this message.As an additional precaution, I placed a warning that the rest of this chapter contains adescription of the Baudelaires’ miserable journey up the Vertical Flame Diversion, soanyone who has the courage to read such a description is probably brave enough toread my letter to you. I have at last learned the whereabouts of the evidence that willexonerate me, a phrase which here means ”prove to the authorities that it is CountOlaf, and not me, who has started so many fires.” Your suggestion, so many yearsago at that picnic, that a tea set would be a handy place to hide anything importantand small in the event of a dark day, has turned out to be correct. (Incidentally, yourother picnic suggestion, that a simple combination of sliced mango, black beans, andchopped celery mixed with black pepper, lime juice, and olive oil would make adelicious chilled salad also turned out to be correct.)I am on my way now to the Valley of Four Drafts, in order to continue my researchon the Baudelaire case. I hope also to retrieve the aforementioned evidence at last. Itis too late to restore my happiness, of course, but at least I can clear my name. Fromthe site of V.F.D. headquarters, I will head straight for the Hotel Denouement. Ishould arrive by — well, it wouldn’t be wise to type the date, but it should be easyfor you to remember Beatrice’s birthday. Meet me at the hotel. Try to get us a roomwithout ugly curtains.With all due respect, Lemony Snicket P.S. If you substitute the chopped celerywith hearts of palm, it is equally delicious.In the very early hours of the morning, while the two elder Baudelaires struggledto find their footing as they climbed up the Vertical Flame Diversion — and Isincerely hope that you did not read the description of that journey — the youngestBaudelaire found herself struggling with a different sort of footing altogether. Sunnyhad not enjoyed the long, cold night on Mount Fraught. If you have ever slept in acovered casserole dish on the highest peak of a mountain range, then you know that itis an uncomfortable place to lay one’s head, even if you find a dishtowel inside it thatcan serve as a blanket. All night long, the chilly mountain winds blew through thetiny holes inside the top of the cover, making it so cold inside the dish that Sunny’senormous teeth chattered all night, giving her tiny cuts on her lips and making such aloud noise that it was impossible to sleep. Finally, when the first rays of the morningsun shone through the holes and made it warm enough to doze, Count Olaf left histent and kicked open the cover of the dish to begin ordering Sunny around.“Wake up, you dentist’s nightmare!” he cried. Sunny opened one exhausted eyeand found herself staring at the villain’s footing, particularly the tattoo on Olaf’s leftankle, a sight that was enough to make her wish her eyes were still closed. Tattooedon Olaf’s ankle was the image of an eye, and it seemed to Sunny that this eye hadbeen watching the Baudelaires throughout all of their troubles, from the day on BrinyBeach when they learned of the terrible fire that destroyed their home. Time aftertime, Count Olaf had tried to hide this eye so the authorities would not recognizehim, so the children were always uncovering it from behind his ridiculous disguises,and the Baudelaires had begun seeing the eye in other places, such as at the office ofan evil hypnotist, on the side of a carnival tent, on Esmé Squalor’s purse, and on anecklace owned by a mysterious fortune-teller. It was almost as if this eye hadreplaced the eyes of their parents, but instead of keeping watch over the children andmaking sure that they were safe from harm, this eye merely gave them a blank stare,as if it did not care about the children’s troubles, or could do nothing about them. Ifyou looked very closely, you could find the letters V.F.D. half-hidden in the eye, andthis reminded Sunny of all the sinister secrets that surrounded the three siblings, andhow far they were from understanding the web of mystery in which they foundthemselves. But it is hard to think about mysteries and secrets first thing in themorning, particularly if someone is yelling at you, and Sunny turned her attention towhat her captor was saying.“You’ll be doing all the cooking and cleaning for us, orphan,” Count Olaf said,“and you can start by making us breakfast. We have a big day ahead of us, and a goodbreakfast will give me and my troupe the energy we need to perform unspeakablecrimes.”“Plakna?” Sunny asked, which meant “How am I supposed to cook breakfast onthe top of a freezing mountain?” but Count Olaf just gave her a nasty smile.“Too bad your brain isn’t as big as your teeth, you little monkey,” he said. “You’retalking nonsense, as usual.”Sunny sighed, frustrated that there was no one on top of the Mortmain Mountainswho understood what she was trying to say. “Translo,” she said, which meant “Justbecause you don’t understand something doesn’t mean that it’s nonsense.”“There you go, babbling again,” Olaf said, and tossed Sunny the car keys. “Get thegroceries out of the trunk of the car and get to work.”Sunny suddenly thought of something that might cheer her up a little bit.“Sneakitawc,” she said, which was her way of saying “Of course, because you don’tunderstand me, I can say anything I want to you, and you’ll have no idea what I’mtalking about.”“I’m getting quite tired of your ridiculous speech impediment,” Count Olaf said.“Brummel,” Sunny said, which meant “In my opinion, you desperately need abath, and your clothing is a shambles.”“Be quiet this instant,” Olaf ordered.“Busheney,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “You’re anevil man with no concern whatsoever for other people.”“Shut up!” Count Olaf roared. “Shut up and get cooking!”Sunny got out of the casserole dish and stood up, looking down at the snowy groundso the villain would not see she was smiling. It is not nice to tease people, of course, butthe youngest Baudelaire felt that it was all right to enjoy a joke at the expense of such amurderous and evil man, and she walked to Olaf’s car with a spring in her step, a phrasewhich here means “in a surprisingly cheerful manner considering she was in the clutchesof a ruthless villain on top of a mountain so cold that even the nearby waterfall was frozensolid.”But when Sunny Baudelaire opened the trunk of the car her smile faded. Undernormal circumstances, it is not safe to keep groceries in the trunk of a car for anextended period of time, because some foods will spoil without being refrigerated.But Sunny saw that the temperatures of the Mortmain Mountains had caused thegroceries to become over-refrigerated. A thin layer of frost covered every item, andSunny had to crawl inside and wipe the frost off with her bare hands to see what shemight make for the troupe. There was a variety of well-chilled food that Olaf hadstolen from the carnival, but none of it seemed like the makings of a good breakfast.There was a bag of coffee beans beneath a harpoon gun and a frozen hunk of spinach,but there was no way to grind the beans into tiny pieces to make coffee. Near a picnicbasket and a large bag of mushrooms was a jug of orange juice, but it had been closeto one of the bullet holes in the trunk, and so had frozen completely solid in the cold.And after Sunny moved aside three chunks of cold cheese, a large can of waterchestnuts, and an eggplant as big as herself, she finally found a small jar ofboysenberry jam, and a loaf of bread she could use to make toast, although it was socold it felt more like a log than a breakfast ingredient.“Wake up!” Sunny peeked out of the trunk and saw Count Olaf calling throughthe door of one of the tents she had assembled. “Wake up and get dressed forbreakfast!”A Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery Slope“Can’t we sleep ten minutes more?” asked the whiny voice of the hook-handedman. “I was having a lovely dream about sneezing without covering my nose andmouth, and giving everybody germs.”“Absolutely not!” Olaf replied. “I have lots of work for you to do.”“But Olaf,” said Esmé Squalor, emerging from the tent she had shared with CountOlaf. Her hair was in curlers and she was wearing a long robe and a pair of fuzzyslippers. “I need a little while to choose what I’m going to wear. It’s not in to burndown a headquarters without wearing a fashionable outfit.”Sunny gasped in the trunk. She had known that Olaf was eager to reach the V.F.D.headquarters as soon as possible, in order to get his hands on the rest of some crucialevidence, but it had not occurred to her that he would combine this evidencegrabbing with his usual pyromania, a word which here means “a love of fire, usuallythe product of a deranged mind.”“I can’t imagine why you need all this time,” was Count Olaf’s grumpy reply tohis girlfriend. “After all, I wear the same outfit for weeks at a time, except when I’min disguise, and I look almost unbearably handsome. Well, I suppose you have a fewminutes before breakfast is ready. Slow service is one of the disadvantages of havinginfants for slaves.” Olaf strode over to the car and peered in at Sunny, who was stillclutching the loaf of bread.“Hurry up, bigmouth,” he growled at Sunny. “I need a nice hot meal to take thechill out of the morning.”“Unfeasi!” Sunny cried. By “Unfeasi” she meant “To make a hot meal without anyelectricity, I’d need a fire, and expecting a baby to start a fire all by herself on top ofa snowy mountain is cruelly impossible and impossibly cruel,” but Olaf merelyfrowned. “Your baby talk is really beginning to annoy me,” he said.“Hygiene,” Sunny said, to make herself feel better. She meant something along thelines of, “Additionally, you ought to be ashamed of yourself for wearing the sameoutfit for weeks at a time without washing,” but Olaf merely scowled at her andwalked back into his tent.Sunny looked at the cold ingredients and tried to think. Even if she had been oldenough to start a fire by herself, Sunny had been nervous around flames since the firethat had destroyed the Baudelaire mansion. But as she thought of the fire thatdestroyed her own home, she remembered something her mother had told her once.They had both been busy in the kitchen — Sunny’s mother was busy preparing for afancy luncheon, and Sunny was busy dropping a fork on the floor over and overagain to see what sort of sound it made. The luncheon was due to start any minute,and Sunny’s mother was quickly mixing up a salad of sliced mango, black beans, andchopped celery mixed with black pepper, lime juice, and olive oil.“This isn’t a very complicated recipe, Sunny,” her mother had said, “but if Iarrange the salad very nicely on fancy plates, people will think I’ve been cooking allday. Often, when cooking, the presentation of the food can be as important as thefood itself.”Thinking of what her mother had said, she opened the picnic basket in Olaf’s trunkand found that it contained a set of elegant plates, each emblazoned with the familiareye insignia, and a small tea set. Then she rolled up her sleeves — an expressionwhich here means “focused very hard on the task at hand, but did not actually roll upher sleeves, because it was very cold on the highest peak of the Mortmain Mountains” — and got to work as Count Olaf and his comrades started their day.“I’ll use these blankets for a tablecloth,” Sunny heard Olaf say in the tent, over thesound her own teeth were making.“Good idea,” she heard Esmé reply. “It’s very in to dine al fresco.”“What does that mean?” Olaf asked.“It means ‘outside,’ of course,” Esmé explained. “It’s fashionable to eat yourmeals in the fresh air.”“I knew what it meant,” Count Olaf replied. “I was just testing you.”“Hey boss,” Hugo called from the next tent. “Colette won’t share the dental floss.”“There’s no reason to use dental floss,” Count Olaf said, “unless you’re trying tostrangle someone with a very weak neck.”“Kevin, would you do me a favor?” the hook-handed man asked, as Sunnystruggled to open the jug of juice. “Will you help me comb my hair? These hooks canmake it difficult sometimes.”“I’m jealous of your hooks,” Kevin replied. “Having no hands is better thanhaving two equally strong hands.”“Don’t be ridiculous,” one of the white-faced women replied. “Having a whiteface is worse than both of your situations.”“But you have a white face because you put makeup on,” Colette said, as Sunnyclimbed back out of the trunk and knelt down in the snow. “You’re putting powder onyour face right now.”“Must you bicker every single morning?” Count Olaf asked, and stomped back outof his tent carrying a blanket covered in images of eyes. “Somebody take this blanketand set the table over there on that flat rock.”Hugo walked out of the tent and smiled at his new boss. “I’d be happy to,” he said.Esmé stepped outside, having changed into a bright red snowsuit, and put her armaround Olaf. “Fold the blanket into a large triangle,” she said to Hugo. “That’s the inway to do it.”“Yes ma’am,” Hugo said, “and, if you don’t mind my saying so, that’s a veryhandsome snowsuit you are wearing.”The villainous girlfriend turned all the way around to show off her outfit fromevery angle. Sunny looked up from her cooking and noticed that the letter B wassewn onto the back of it, along with the eye insignia. “I’m glad you like it, Hugo,”Esmé said. “It’s stolen.”Count Olaf glanced at Sunny and quickly stepped in front of his girlfriend. “Whatare you staring at, toothy?” he asked. “Are you done making breakfast?”“Almost,” Sunny replied.“That infant never makes any sense,” Hugo said. “No wonder she fooled us intothinkine she was a carnival freak.”Sunny sighed, but no one heard her over the scornful laughter of Olaf’s troupe.One by one, the villain’s wretched employees emerged from the tent and strolled overto the flat rock where Hugo was laying out the blanket. One of the white-facedwomen glanced at Sunny and gave her a small smile, but nobody offered to help herfinish with the breakfast preparations, or even to set the table with the eye-patterneddishes. Instead, they gathered around the rock talking and laughing until Sunnycarefully carried the breakfast over to them, arranged on a large eye-shaped tray thatshe’d found in the bottom of the picnic basket. Although she was still frightened tobe in Olaf’s clutches and worried about her siblings, Sunny could not help but be alittle proud as Count Olaf and his comrades looked at the meal she had prepared.Sunny had kept in mind what her mother had said about presentation being asimportant as the food itself, and managed to put together a lovely breakfast despitethe difficult circumstances. First, she had opened the jug of frozen orange juice andused a small spoon to chip away at the ice until she had a large heap of juiceshavings, which she arranged into tiny piles on each plate to make orange granita, acold and delicious concoction that is often served at fancy dinner parties and maskedballs. Then, Sunny had rinsed her mouth out with melted snow so it would be asclean as possible, and chopped some of the coffee beans with her teeth. She placed abit of the ground coffee inside each cup and combined it with more snow she hadmelted in her own hands to make iced coffee, a delicious beverage I first enjoyedwhen visiting Thailand to interview a taxi driver. Meanwhile, the youngestBaudelaire had put the chilled bread underneath her shirt to warm it up, and when itwas warm enough to eat she put one slice on each plate, and using a small spoon,spread some boysenberry jam on each piece of bread. She did her best to spread thejam in the shape of an eye, to please the villains who would be eating it, and as afinishing touch she found a bouquet of ivy, which Count Olaf had given his girlfriendnot so long ago, and placed it in the small pitcher of the tea set used for cream. Therewas no cream, but the ivy would help the presentation of the food by serving as acenterpiece, a word which here means “a decoration placed in the middle of a table,often used to distract people from the food.” Of course, orange granita and icedcoffee are not often served at al fresco breakfasts on cold mountain peaks, and breadwith jam is more traditionally prepared as toast, but without a source of heat or anyother cooking equipment, Sunny had done the best she could, and she hoped that Olafand his troupe might appreciate her efforts.“Caffefredde, sorbet, toast tartar,” she announced.“What is this?” Count Olaf said suspiciously, peering into his coffee cup. “It lookslike coffee, but it’s freezing cold!”“And what is this orange stuff?” Esmé asked suspiciously. “I want fashionable, infood, not a handful of ice!”Colette picked up a piece of the bread and stared at it suspiciously. “This toastfeels raw,” she said. “Is it safe to eat raw toast?”“Of course not,” Hugo said. “I bet that baby is trying to poison us.”“Actually, the coffee isn’t bad,” one of the white-faced women said, “even if it is alittle bitter. Could someone pass the sugar, please?”‘Sugar?“ shrieked Count Olaf, erupting in anger. He stood up, grabbed one end ofthe blanket, and pulled as hard as he could, scattering all of Sunny’s hard work. Food,beverages, and dishes fell everywhere, and Sunny had to duck to avoid getting hit onthe head with a flying fork. ”All the sugar in the world couldn’t save this terriblebreakfast!“ he roared, and then leaned down so that his shiny, shiny eyes stared rightinto Sunny’s. ”I told you to make a nice, hot breakfast, and you gave me cold,disgusting nonsense!“ he said, his smelly breath making a cloud in the chilly air.”Don’t you see how high up we are, you sabertoothed papoose? If I threw you offMount Fraught , you’d never survive!”“Olaf!” Esmé said. “I’m surprised at you! Surely you remember that we’ll neverget the Baudelaire fortune if we toss Sunny off the mountain. We have to keep Sunnyalive for the greater good.”“Yes, yes,” Count Olaf said. “I remember. I’m not going to throw the orphan offthe mountain. I just wanted to terrify her.” He gave Sunny a cruel smirk, and thenturned to the hook-handed man. “Walk over to that frozen waterfall,” he said, “andcrack a hole in the ice with your hook. The stream is full of Stricken Salmon. Catchenough for all of us, and we’ll have the baby prepare us a proper meal.”“Good idea, Olaf,” the hook-handed man said, standing up and walking toward theicy slope. “You’re as smart as you are intelligent.”“Sakesushi,” Sunny said quietly, which meant “I don’t think you’ll enjoy salmon ifit’s not cooked.”“Stop your baby talk and wash these dishes,” Olaf ordered. “They’re covered inlousy food.”“You know, Olaf,” said the white-faced woman who had asked for sugar, “it’snone of my business, but we might put someone else in charge of cooking. It wasprobably difficult for a baby to prepare a hot breakfast without a fire.”“But there is a fire,” said a deep, low voice, and everyone turned around to seewho had arrived.Having an aura of menace is like having a pet weasel, because you rarely meetsomeone who has one, and when you do it makes you want to hide under the coffeetable. An aura of menace is simply a distinct feeling of evil that accompanies thearrival of certain people, and very few individuals are evil enough to produce an auraof menace that is very strong. Count Olaf, for example, had an aura of menace thatthe three Baudelaires had felt the moment they met him, but a number of other peoplenever seemed to sense that a villain was in their midst, even when Olaf was standingright next to them with an evil gleam in his eye. But when two visitors arrived at thehighest peak of the Mortmain Mountains , their aura of menace was unmistakable.Sunny gasped when she saw them. Esmé Squalor shuddered in her snowsuit. Themembers of Olaf’s troupe — all except the hook-handed man, who was busy fishingfor salmon and so was lucky enough to miss the visitors’ arrival — gazed down at thesnowy ground rather than take a further look at them. Count Olaf himself looked a bitnervous as the man, the woman, and their aura of menace drew closer and closer.And even I, after all this time, can feel their aura of menace so strongly, just bywriting about these two people, that I dare not say their names, and will instead referto them the way everyone who dares refer to them refers to them, as “the man with abeard, but no hair” and “the woman with hair, but no beard.”“It’s good to see you, Olaf,” continued the deep voice, and Sunny realized that thevoice belonged to the sinister-looking woman. She was dressed in a suit made of astrange blue fabric that was very shiny, decorated with two large pads, one on eachshoulder. She was dragging a wooden toboggan — a word which here means “a sledbig enough to hold several people,” which made an eerie scraping sound against thecold ground. “I was worried that the authorities might have captured you.”“You look well,” said the man with a beard but no hair. He was dressed identicallyto the woman with hair but no beard, but his voice was very hoarse, as if he had beenscreaming for hours and could hardly talk. “It’s been a long time since we’ve laideyes on one another.” The man gave Olaf a grin that made it seem even colder on themountain peak, and then stopped and helped the woman lean the toboggan againstthe rock where Sunny had served breakfast. The youngest Baudelaire saw that thetoboggan was painted with the familiar eye insignia, and had a few long leatherstraps, presumably used for steering.Count Olaf coughed lightly into his hand, which is something people often dowhen they cannot think of what to say. “Hello,” he said, a bit nervously. “Did I hearyou say something about a fire?”The man with a beard but no hair and the woman with hair but no beard looked atone another and shared a laugh that made Sunny cover her ears with her hands.“Haven’t you noticed,” the woman said, “that there are no snow gnats around?”“We had noticed that,” Esmé said. “I thought maybe snow gnats were no longerin.”“Don’t be ridiculous, Esmé,” said the man with a beard but no hair. He reached outand kissed Esmé‘s hand, which Sunny could see was trembling. “The gnats aren’taround because they can smell the smoke.”“I don’t smell anything,” said Hugo.“Well, if you were a tiny insect, you’d smell something,” replied the woman withhair but no beard. “If you were a snow gnat, you’d smell the smoke from the V.F.D.headquarters.”“We did you a favor, Olaf,” the man said. “We burned the entire place down.”“No!” Sunny cried, before she could stop herself. By “No!” she meant “I certainlyhope that isn’t true, because my siblings and I hoped to reach V.F.D. headquarters,solve the mysteries that surround us, and perhaps find one of our parents,” but shehad not planned to say it out loud. The two visitors looked down at the youngestBaudelaire, casting their aura of menace in her direction.“What is that?” asked the man with a beard but no hair.“That’s the youngest Baudelaire,” replied Esmé. “We’ve eliminated the other two,but we’re keeping this one around to do our bidding until we can finally steal thefortune.”The woman with hair but no beard nodded. “Infant servants are so troublesome,”she said. “I had an infant servant once — a long time ago, before the schism.”“Before the schism?” Olaf said, and Sunny wished Klaus were with her, becausethe baby did not know what the word “schism” meant. “That is a long time ago. Thatinfant must be all grown up by now.”“Not necessarily,” the woman said, and laughed again, while her companionleaned down to gaze at Sunny. Sunny could not bear to look into the eyes of the manwith a beard but no hair, and instead looked down at his shiny shoes.“So this is Sunny Baudelaire,” he said in his strange, hoarse voice. “Well, well,well. I’ve heard so much about this little orphan. She’s caused almost as manyproblems as her parents did.” He stood up again and looked around at Olaf and histroupe. “But we know how to solve problems, don’t we? Fire can solve any problemin the world.”He began to laugh, and the woman with hair but no beard laughed along with him.Nervously, Count Olaf began to laugh, too, and then glared at his troupe until theylaughed along with him, and Sunny found herself surrounded by tall, laughingvillains. “Oh, it was wonderful,” said the woman with hair but no beard. “First weburned down the kitchen. Then we burned down the dining room. Then we burneddown the parlor, and then the disguise center, the movie room, and the stables. Thenwe moved on to the gymnasium and the training center, and the garage and all six ofthe laboratories. We burned down the dormitories and schoolrooms, the lounge, thetheater, and the music room, as well as the museum and the ice cream shop. Then weburned down the rehearsal studios and the testing centers and the swimming pool,which was very hard to burn down. Then we burned down all the bathrooms, andthen finally, we burned down the V.F.D. library last night. That was my favorite part— books and books and books, all turned to ashes so no one could read them. Youshould have been there, Olaf! Every morning we lit fires and every evening wecelebrated with a bottle of wine and some finger puppets. We’ve been wearing thesefireproof suits for almost a month. It’s been a marvelous time.”“Why did you burn it down gradually?” Count Olaf asked. “Whenever I burnsomething down, I do it all at once.”“We couldn’t have burned down the entire headquarters at once,” said the manwith a beard but no hair. “Someone would have spotted us. Remember, where there’ssmoke there’s fire.”“But if you burned the headquarters down room by room,” Esmé said, “didn’t allof the volunteers escape?”“They were gone already,” said the man, and scratched his head where his hairmight have been. “The entire headquarters were deserted. It was as if they knew wewere coming. Oh well, you can’t win them all.”“Maybe we’ll find some of them when we burn down the carnival,” said thewoman, in her deep, deep voice.“Carnival?” Olaf asked nervously.“Yes,” the woman said, and scratched the place where her beard would have been,if she had one. “There’s an important piece of evidence that V.F.D. has hidden in afigurine sold at Caligari Carnival, so we need to go burn it down.”“I burned it down already,” Count Olaf said.“The whole place?” the woman said in surprise.“The whole place,” Olaf said, giving her a nervous smile.“Congratulations,” she said, in a deep purr. “You’re better than I thought, Olaf.”Count Olaf looked relieved, as if he had not been sure whether the woman wasgoing to compliment him or kick him. “Well, it’s all for the greater good,” he said.“As a reward,” the woman said, “I have a gift for you, Olaf.” Sunny watched asthe woman reached into the pocket of her shiny suit and drew out a stack of paper,tied together with thick rope. The paper looked very old and worn, as if it had beenpassed around to a variety of different people, hidden in a number of secretcompartments, and perhaps even divided into different piles, driven around a city inhorse-drawn carriages, and then put back together at midnight in the back room of abookstore disguised as a cafe disguised as a sporting goods store. Count Olaf’s eyesgrew very wide and very shiny, and he reached his filthy hands toward it if it werethe Baudelaire fortune itself.“The Snicket file!” he said, in a hushed whisper.“It’s all here,” the woman said. “Every chart, every map and every photographfrom the only file that could put us all in jail.”“It’s complete except for page thirteen, of course,” the man said. “We understandthat the Baudelaires managed to steal that page from Heimlich Hospital .”The two visitors glared down at Sunny Baudelaire, who couldn’t help whimperingin fear. “Surchmi,” she said. She meant something along the lines of, “I don’t have it— my siblings do,” but she did not need a translator.“The older orphans have it,” Olaf said, “but I’m fairly certain they’re dead.”“Then all of our problems have gone up in smoke,” said the woman with hair butno beard.Count Olaf grabbed the file and held it to his chest as if it were a newborn baby,although he was not the sort of person to treat a newborn baby very kindly. “This isthe most wonderful gift in the world,” he said. “I’m going to go read it right now.”“We’ll all read it together,” said the woman with hair but no beard. “It containssecrets we all ought to know.”“But first,” said the man with a beard but no hair, “I have a gift for your girlfriend,Olaf.”“For me?” Esmé asked.“I found these in one of the rooms of headquarters,” the man said. “I’ve never seenone before, but it has been quite some time since I was a volunteer.” With a sly smile,he reached into his pocket and took out a small green tube.“What’s that?” Esmé asked.“I think it’s a cigarette,” the man said.“A cigarette!” Esmé said, with a smile as big as Olaf’s. “How in!”“I thought you’d enjoy them,” the man said. “Here, try it. I happen to have quite afew matches right here.”The man with a beard but no hair struck a match, lit the end of the green tube, andoffered it to the wicked girlfriend, who grabbed it and held it to her mouth. A bittersmell, like that of burning vegetables, filled the air, and Esmé Squalor began tocough.“What’s the matter?” asked the woman in her deep voice. “I thought you likedthings that are in.”“I do,” Esmé said, and then coughed quite a bit more. Sunny was reminded of Mr.Poe, who was always coughing into a handkerchief, as Esmé coughed and coughedand finally dropped the green tube to the ground where it spewed out a dark greensmoke. “I love cigarettes,” she explained to the man with a beard but no hair, “but Iprefer to smoke them with a long holder because I don’t like the smell or taste andbecause they’re very bad for you.”“Never mind that now,” Count Olaf said impatiently. “Let’s go into my tent andread the file.” He started to walk toward the tent but stopped and glared at hiscomrades, who were beginning to follow him. “The rest of you stay out here,” hesaid. “There are secrets in this file that I do not want you to know.”The two sinister visitors began to laugh, and followed Count Olaf and Esmé intothe tent closing the flap behind them. Sunny stood with Hugo, Colette, Kevin, and thetwo white-faced women and stared after them in silence, waiting for the aura ofmenace to disappear.“Who were those people?” asked the hook-handed man, and everyone turned tosee that he had returned from his fishing expedition. Four salmon hung from each ofhis hooks, dripping with the waters of the Stricken Stream.“I don’t know,” said one of the white-faced women, “but they made me verynervous.”“If they’re friends of Count Olaf’s,” Kevin said, “how bad could they be?”The members of the troupe looked at one another, but no one answered theambidextrous person’s question. “What did that man mean when he said ‘Wherethere’s smoke there’s fire’?” Hugo asked.“I don’t know,” Colette said. A chilly wind blew, and Sunny watched her contorther body in the breeze until it looked almost as curvy as the smoke from the greentube Esmé had dropped.“Forget those questions,” the hook-handed man said. “My question is, how are yougoing to prepare this salmon, orphan?”Olaf’s henchman was looking down at Sunny, but the youngest Baudelaire did notanswer for a moment. Sunny was thinking, and her siblings would have been proudof her for the way she was thinking. Klaus would have been proud, because she wasthinking about the phrase “Where there’s smoke there’s fire,” and what it mightmean. And Violet would have been proud, because she was thinking about thesalmon that the hook-handed man was holding, and what she might invent that wouldhelp her. Sunny stared at the hook-handed man and thought as hard as she could, andshe felt almost as if both siblings were with her, Klaus helping her think about aphrase and Violet helping her think about an invention.“Answer me, baby,” the hook-handed man growled. “What are you going to makefor us out of this salmon?”“Lox!” Sunny said, but it was as if all three of the Baudelaires had answered thequestion.and whether or not there are enough people with the integrity and decency necessaryto keep the entire planet from descending into despair. I have not read this novel in severalyears, because I participate in enough discussions on how the world has become a corruptand dangerous place and whether or not there are enough people with the integrity anddecency necessary to keep the entire planet from descending into despair without readingabout it in my leisure time, but nevertheless the phrase “corridors of power” has come tomean the hushed and often secret places where important matters are discussed. Whetheror not they are actual corridors, the corridors of power tend to feel quiet and mysterious. Ifyou have ever walked inside an important building, such as the main branch of a library orthe office of a dentist who has agreed to disguise your teeth, then you may haveexperienced this feeling that accompanies the corridors of power, and Violet and KlausBaudelaire experienced it as they reached the end of the Vertical Flame Diversion, andfollowed the mysterious sweatered scout as he climbed out of the secret passageway. Eventhrough their masks, the two siblings could sense that they were in an important place,even though it was nothing more than a dim, curved hallway with a small grate on theceiling where the morning light was shining through.“That’s where the smoke escapes from the Snow Scouts’ fire,” whispered themysterious scout, pointing up at the ceiling. “That leads to the very center of theValley of Four Drafts, so the smoke is scattered to the four winds. V.F.D. doesn’twant anyone to see the smoke.”“Where there’s smoke,” Violet said, “there’s fire.”“Exactly,” the scout said. “Anyone who saw smoke coming from this high up inthe mountains might become suspicious and investigate. In fact, I found a device thatworks exactly according to this principle.” He reached into his backpack and drewout a small rectangular box filled with small green tubes, exactly like the one thatSunny had seen the man with a beard but no hair give to Esmé Squalor.“No thank you,” Violet said. “I don’t smoke.”“I don’t, either,” the scout said, “but these aren’t cigarettes. These are VerdantFlammable Devices. Verdant means ‘green,’ so when you light one, it gives out adark green smoke, so another volunteer will know where you are.”Klaus took the box from the scout and squinted at it in the dim light. “I’ve seen abox like this before,” he said, “in my father’s desk, when I was looking for a letteropener. I remember thinking it was strange to find them, because he didn’t smoke.”“He must have been hiding them,” Violet said. “Why was he keeping them asecret?”“The entire organization is a secret,” the scout said. “It was very difficult for me tolearn the secret location of the headquarters.”“It was difficult for us, too,” Klaus said. “We found it in a coded map.”“I had to draw my own map,” the scout said, and reached into a pocket in hissweater. He turned on the flashlight, and the two Baudelaires could see he washolding a notebook with a dark purple cover.“What’s that?” Violet asked.“It’s a commonplace book,” the scout said. “Whenever I find something that seemsimportant or interesting, I write it down. That way, all my important information is inone place.”“I should start one,” Klaus said. “My pockets are bulging with scraps of paper.”“From information I read in Dr. Montgomery’s book, and a few others,” the scoutsaid, “I managed to draw a map of where to go from here.” He opened the purplenotebook and flipped a few pages until he reached a small but elegant rendering ofthe cave, the Vertical Flame Diversion, and the hallway in which they were standingnow. “As you can see,” he said, running his finger along the hallway, “thepassageway branches off in two directions.”“This is a very well-drawn map,” Violet said.“Thank you,” the scout replied. “I’ve been interested in cartography for quite sometime. See, if we go to the left, there’s a small area used for sled and snowsuit storage,at least according to a newspaper article I found. But if we go right, we’ll arrive at theVernacularly Fastened Door, which should open onto the headquarters’ kitchen. Wemight walk in on the entire organization having breakfast.”The two Baudelaires looked at one another through their masks, and Violet put ahand on her brother’s shoulder. They did not dare to say out loud their hope that oneof their parents might be just around the corner.“Let’s go,” Violet whispered.The scout nodded silently in agreement, and led the Baudelaires down the hallway,which seemed to get colder and colder with every step. By now they were so far fromBruce and the Snow Scouts that there was no need to whisper, but all three childrenkept quiet as they walked down the dim, curved hallway, hushed by the feeling of thecorridors of power. At last they reached a large metal door with a strange devicewhere the doorknob should have been. The device looked a bit like a spider, withcurly wires spreading out in all directions, but where the head of the spider mighthave been as the keyboard of a typewriter. Even in her excitement to see theheadquarters, Violet’s inventing mind was interested in such a device, and she leanedcloser to see what it was.“Wait,” the sweatered scout said, reaching his arm out to stop her. “This is a codedlock. If we don’t operate it properly, we won’t be able to get into the headquarters.”“How does it work?” Violet said, shivering slightly in the cold.“I’m not sure,” the scout admitted, and took out his commonplace book again. “It’scalled the Vernacularly Fastened Door, so — ”“So it operates on language,” Klaus finished. “Vernacular is a word for ‘a locallanguage or dialect.’”“Of course,” Violet said. “See how the wires are curled around the hinges of thedoor? They’re locked in place, unless you type in the right sequence of letters on thatkeyboard. There are more letters than numbers, so it would be more difficult forsomeone to guess the combination of the lock.”“That’s what I read,” the scout confirmed looking at a page in his notebook.“You’re supposed to type in three specific phrases in a row. The phrases change everyseason, so volunteers need to have a lot of information at their fingertips to use thisdoor. The first is the name of the scientist most widely credited with the discovery ofgravity.”“That’s easy,” Violet said, and typed in S-I-R-I-S-A-A-C-N-E-W-T-O-N, the nameof a physicist she had always admired. When she was finished, there was a mutedclicking sound from the typewriter keyboard, as if the device was warming up.“The second is the Latin name for the Volunteer Feline Detectives,” the scout said.“I found the answer in Remarkable Phenomena of the Mortmain Mountains . It’sPanthera leo .” He leaned forward and typed in P-A-N-T-H-E-R-A-L-E-O. There wasa very quiet buzzing and and the children saw that the wires near the hinges wereshaking very slightly.“It’s beginning to unlock,” Violet said. “I hope I get a chance to study thisinvention.”“Let’s get to the headquarters first,” Klaus said. “What’s the third phrase?”The scout sighed, and turned a page in the commonplace book. “I’m not sure,” headmitted. “Another volunteer told me that it’s the central theme of Leo Tolstoy’snovel Anna Karenina, but I haven’t had a chance to read it yet.”Violet knew that her brother was smiling, even though she could not see his facethrough the mask. She was remembering one summer, very long ago, when Klauswas very young and Sunny was not even conceived. Every summer, the Baudelaires’mother would read a very long book, joking that lifting a large novel was the onlyexercise she liked to get during the hot months. During the time Violet was thinkingof, Mrs. Baudelaire chose Anna Karenina for her summer reading, and Klaus wouldsit on his mother’s lap for hours at a time while she read The middle Baudelaire hadnot been reading very long, but their mother helped him with the big words andwould occasionally stop reading to explain what had happened in the story, and inthis way Klaus and his mother read the story of Ms. Karenina, whose boyfriend treatsher so poorly that she throws herself under a train. Violet had spent most of thatsummer studying the laws of thermodynamics and building a miniature helicopter outof an eggbeater and some old copper wiring, but she knew that Klaus must rememberthe central theme of the book he read on his mother’s lap.“The central theme of Anna Karenina” he said, “is that a rural life of moralsimplicity, despite its monotony, is the preferable personal narrative to a daring life ofimpulsive passion, which only leads to tragedy.”“That’s a very long theme,” the scout said.“It’s a very long book,” Klaus replied. “But I can work quickly. My sisters and Ionce tapped out a long telegram in no time at all.”“Too bad that telegram never arrived,” the scout said quietly, but the middleBaudelaire was already pressing the keys on the Vernacularly Fastened Door. AsKlaus typed the words “a rural life,” a phrase which here means “living in thecountry,” the wires began to curl and uncurl very quickly, like worms on a sidewalkafter it has rained, and by the time Klaus was typing “the preferable personalnarrative,” a phrase which here means “the way to live your life,” the entire door wasquivering as if it were as nervous as the Baudelaires. Finally, Klaus typed “T-R-A-GE-D-Y,” and the three children stepped back, but instead of opening, the door stoppedshaking and the wires stopped moving, and the passageway was dead quiet.“It’s not opening,” Violet said. “Maybe that isn’t the central theme of LeoTolstoy’s Anna Karenina”“It seemed like it was working until the last word,” the scout said.“Maybe the mechanism is a little stuck ” Violet said.“Or maybe a daring life of impulsive passion only leads to something else,” thescout said, and in some cases this mysterious person was right. A daring life ofimpulsive passion is an expression which refers to people who follow what is in theirhearts, and like people who prefer to follow their head, or follow the advice of otherpeople, or follow a mysterious man in a dark blue raincoat, people who lead a daringlife of impulsive passion end up doing all sorts of things. For instance, if you everfind yourself reading a book entitled The Bible, you would find the story of Adamand Eve, whose daring life of impulsive passion led to them putting on clothing forthe first time in their lives, in order to leave the snake-infested garden where they hadbeen living. Bonnie and Clyde, another famous couple who lived a daring life ofimpulsive passion, found that it led them to a successful if short career in bankrobbery. And in my own case, in the few moments where I have led a daring life ofimpulsive passion, it has led to all sorts of trouble, from false accusations of arson toa broken cufflink I can never have repaired. But in this case, as the Baudelaires stoodat the Vernacularly Fastened Door, hoping to reach the V.F.D. headquarters, rescuetheir sister, and see if one of their parents was indeed alive, it was not the sweateredscout but the two Baudelaires who were right, because in Leo Tolstoy’s AnnaKarenina, a daring life of impulsive passion leads only to tragedy, as Klaus said, andas Violet said, the mechanism was a little stuck, and after a few seconds, the doorswung open with a slow and eerie creak. The children stepped through the door,blinking in the sudden light, and stood frozen in their steps. If you have read this farin the Baudelaires’ woeful story, then you will not be surprised to learn that theV.F.D. headquarters in the Valley of Four Drafts in the Mortmain Mountains was nomore, but Violet and Klaus, of course, were not reading their own story. They were intheir own story, and this was the part of their story where they were sick with shockat what they saw.The Vernacularly Fastened Door did not open onto a kitchen, not anymore. Whenthe Baudelaires followed the mysterious scout through the doorway, they foundthemselves standing in what at first seemed to be a large field, growing a black andruined harvest in a valley as cold and drafty as its name. But slowly, they saw thecharred remains of the grand and impressive building that had stood where the threechildren were standing. Nearby was a handful of silverware that had survived theblaze, scattered in front of the remnants of a stove, and a refrigerator stood to oneside, as if it were guarding the ashen remains of the rest of the kitchen. To one sidewas a pile of burnt wood that had probably once been a large dining table, with ahalf-melted candelabra sticking out of the top like a baby tree. Farther away, theycould see the mysterious shapes of other objects that had survived the fire — atrombone, the pendulum of a grandfather clock, what looked like a periscope, orperhaps a spyglass, an ice cream scoop, lying forlornly in a pile of ashes encrustedwith burnt sugar, and an iron archway emblazoned with the words “V.F.D. Library,”but there was nothing beyond the archway but piles and piles of blackened remains. Itwas a devastating sight, and it made Violet and Klaus feel as if they were all alone ina world that had been completely ruined. The only thing they could see that seemeduntouched by the fire was a sheer, white wall, beyond the refrigerator, that rose up asfar as two siblings could see. It took the Baudelaires a few moments to realize that itwas a frozen waterfall, rising up in a slippery slope toward the source of the StrickenStream on Mount Fraught , so shiny and white that it made the ruined headquarterslook even darker.“It must have been beautiful,” the sweatered scout said, in a quivering voice. Hewalked toward the waterfall, his feet churning up black dust with every step. “I readthat there was a large window,” he said, moving his gloved hand in the air as if itwere still there. “When it was your turn to cook, you could look out at the waterfallwhile you were chopping vegetables or simmering a sauce. It was supposed to bevery peaceful. And there was a mechanism just outside the window that turned someof the water from the pool into steam. The steam rose up and covered theheadquarters, so it couldn’t be seen through the blanket of mist.”The Baudelaires walked to where the scout was standing, and looked into thefrozen pool at the bottom of the waterfall. The pool branched off into two tributaries,a word which here means “divisions of a river or stream, each twisting off in adifferent direction past the ruins of the headquarters, and curving around theMortmain Mountains until they disappeared from view.” Violet and Klaus gazedsadly at the icy swirls of black and gray they had noticed when they were walkingalongside the Stricken Stream.“It was ashes” Klaus said quietly. “Ashes from the fire fell into the pool at thebottom of the waterfall, and the stream carried them down the river.”Violet found that it was easier to discuss a small, specific matter than think abouther immense disappointment.“But the pool is frozen solid,” she said. “The stream couldn’t have carried theashes anywhere.”“It wouldn’t have been frozen when it happened,” Klaus replied. “The heat fromthe fire would have thawed the pool.”“It must have been awful to see,” the sweatered scout said. Violet and Klaus stoodwith him, imagining the inferno, a word which here means “enormous fire thatdestroyed a secret headquarters high in the mountains.” They could almost hear theshattering of glass as the windows fell away, and the crackle of the fire as itconsumed everything it could. They could almost smell the thick smoke as it floatedupward and blackened the sky, and they could almost see the books in the library,falling from the burning shelves and tumbling into ashes The only thing they couldnot picture was who might have been at the headquarters when the fire began,running out into the freezing cold to avoid the flames.“Do you think,” Violet said, “any of the volunteers …”“There’s no sign that anyone was here,” the scout said quickly.“But how can we know for sure?” Klaus asked. “There could be a survivorsomeplace right now.”“Hello?” Violet called, looking around her at the rubble. “Hello?” She found thather eyes were filling with tears, as she called out for the people she knew in her heartwere nowhere nearby. The eldest Baudelaire felt as if she had been calling for thesepeople since that terrible day on the beach, and that if she called them enough theymight appear before her. She thought of all the times she had called them, back whenshe lived with her siblings in the Baudelaire mansion. Sometimes she called themwhen she wanted them to see something she had invented. Sometimes she calledthem when she wanted them to know she had arrived home. And sometimes shecalled them just because she wanted to know where they were. Sometimes Violet justwanted to see them, and feel that she was safe as long as they were around.“Mother!” Violet Baudelaire called. “Father!”There was no answer.“Mom!” Klaus called. “Dad!”The Baudelaires heard nothing but the rush of all four of the valley’s drafts, and along creak as the Vernacularly Fastened Door blew shut. They saw that the door hadbeen made to look just like the side of the mountain, so that they could scarcely seewhere they had come from, or the way to get back. Now they were truly alone.“I know we were all hoping to find people at the headquarters,” the sweateredscout said gently, “but I don’t think anyone is here. I think we’re all by ourselves.”“That’s impossible!” Klaus cried, and Violet could hear that he was crying. Hereached through his layers of clothing until he found his pocket, and pulled out pagethirteen from the Snicket file, which he had been carrying with him since theBaudelaires had found it at Heimlich Hospital . The page had a photograph of theirparents, standing with Jacques Snicket and another man the Baudelaires had beenunable to identify, and above the photograph was a sentence Klaus had memorizedfrom reading it so many times.‘“Because of the evidence discussed on page nine,’” he recited tearfully, “‘expertsnow suspect that there may in fact be one survivor of the fire, but the survivor’swhereabouts are unknown.’” He walked up to the scout and shook the page in hisface. “We thought the survivor would be here,” he said.“I think the survivor is here,” the scout said quietly, and removed his mask toreveal his face at last. “I’m Quigley Quagmire,” he said, “I survived the fire thatdestroyed my home, and I was hoping to find my brother and sister.”C H A P T E REightand I will spend the rest of our lives together in happiness and bliss,” when I actuallysuspected that things were about to get much worse. And so it was with the two elderBaudelaires, when they stood face-to-face with Quigley Quagmire and found themselvesto be saying things they knew were absurd.“You’re dead,” Violet said, and took off her mask to make sure she was seeingthings clearly. But there was no mistaking Quigley, even though the Baudelaires hadnever seen him before. He looked so much like Duncan and Isadora that he couldonly be the third Quagmire triplet.“You perished in a fire along with your parents,” Klaus said, but as he took off hismask he knew this wasn’t so. Quigley was even giving the two Baudelaires a smallsmile that looked exactly like his siblings’.“No,” Quigley said. “I survived, and I’ve been looking for my siblings ever since.”“But how did you survive?” Violet asked. “Duncan and Isadora said that the houseburned to the ground.”“It did,” Quigley said sadly. He looked out at the frozen waterfall and sigheddeeply. “I suppose I should start at the beginning. I was in my family’s library,studying a map of the Finite Forest , when I heard a shattering of glass, and peopleshouting. My mother ran into the room and said there was a fire. We tried to go outthe front door but the main hall was filled with smoke, so she took me back into thelibrary and lifted a corner of the rug. There was a secret door underneath. She told meto wait down below while she fetched my siblings, and she left me there in the dark. Iremember hearing the house falling to pieces above me, and the sound of franticfootsteps, and my siblings screaming.” Quigley put his mask down on the ground andlooked at the two Baudelaires. “But she never came back,” he said. “Nobody cameback, and when I tried to open the door, something had fallen on top of it and itwouldn’t budge.”“How did you get out?” Klaus asked.“I walked,” Quigley said. “When it became clear that no one was going to rescueme, I felt around in the dark and realized I was in a sort of passageway. There wasnowhere else to go so I started walking. I’ve never been so frightened in my life,walking alone in some dark passageway my parents had kept secret. I couldn’timagine where it would lead.”The two Baudelaires looked at one another. They were thinking about the secretpassageway they had discovered underneath their home, which they had discoveredwhen they were under the care of Esmé Squalor and her husband.“And where did it lead?” Violet said.“To the house of a herpetologist,” Quigley said. “At the end of the passagewaywas a secret door that opened into an enormous room, made entirely of glass. Theroom was filled with empty cages, but it was clear that the room had once housed anenormous collection of reptiles.”“We’ve been there!” Klaus cried in amazement. “That’s Uncle Monty’s house! Hewas our guardian until Count Olaf arrived, disguised as — ”“As a lab assistant,” Quigley finished. “I know. His suitcase was still there.”“There was a secret passageway under our house, too,” Violet said, “but we didn’tdiscover it until we lived with Esmé Squalor.”“There are secrets everywhere,” Quigley said. “I think everyone’s parents havesecrets. You just have to know where to look for them.”“But why would our parents, and yours, have tunnels underneath their homesleading to a fancy apartment building and a herpetologist’s home?” Klaus said. “Itdoesn’t make any sense.”Quigley sighed, and put his backpack on the ashen ground, next to his mask.“There’s a lot that doesn’t make sense,” he said. “I was hoping to find the answershere, but now I don’t know if I’ll ever find them.” He took out his purple notebookand opened it to the first page. “All I can tell you is what I have here in thiscommonplace book.”Klaus gave Quigley a small smile, and reached into his pockets to retrieve all ofthe papers he had stored there. “You tell us what you know,” he said, “and we’ll tellyou what we know. Perhaps together we can answer our own questions.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery SlopeQuigley nodded in agreement, and the three children sat in a circle on what wasonce the kitchen floor. Quigley opened his backpack and took out a bag of saltedalmonds, which he passed around. “You must be hungry from the climb up theVertical Flame Diversion,” he said. “I know I am. Let’s see, where was I?”“In the Reptile Room,” Violet said, “at the end of the passageway.”“Well, nothing happened for a while,” Quigley said. “On the doorstep of the housewas a copy of The Daily Punctilio, which had an article about the fire. That’s how Ilearned that my parents were dead. I spent days and days there, all by myself. I wasso sad, and so scared, and I didn’t know what else to do. I suppose I was waiting forthe herpetologist to show up for work, and see if he was a friend of my parents andmight be of some assistance. The kitchen was filled with food, so I had enough to eat,and every night I slept at the bottom of the stairs, so I could hear if anyone came in.”The Baudelaires nodded sympathetically, and Violet put a comforting hand onQuigley’s shoulder. “We were the same way,” Violet said, “right when we heard thenews about our parents. I scarcely remember what we did and what we said.”“But didn’t anyone come looking for you?” Klaus asked.“‘The Daily Punctilio said that I died in the fire, too,” Quigley said. “The articlesaid that my sister and brother were sent off to Prufrock Preparatory School , and thatmy parents’ estate was under the care of the city’s sixth most important financialadvisor.”“Esmé Squalor” Violet and Klaus said simultaneously, a word which here means“in a disgusted voice, and at the exact same time.”“Right,” Quigley said, “but I wasn’t interested in that part of the story. I wasdetermined to go to the school and find my siblings again. I found an atlas in Dr.Montgomery’s library, and studied it until I found Prufrock Preparatory School . Itwasn’t too far, so I started to gather whatever supplies I could find around his house.”“Didn’t you think of calling the authorities?” Klaus asked.“I guess I wasn’t thinking very clearly,” Quigley admitted. “All I could think ofwas finding my siblings.”“Of course,” Violet said. “So what happened then?”“I was interrupted,” Quigley said. “Someone walked in just as I was putting theatlas in a tote bag I found. It was Jacques Snicket, although I didn’t know who hewas, of course. But he knew who I was, and was overjoyed that I was alive after all.”“How did you know you could trust him?” Klaus asked.“Well, he knew about the secret passageway,” Quigley said. In fact, he knew quitea bit about my family, even though he hadn’t seen my parents in years. And …”“And?” Violet said.Quigley gave her a small smile. “And he was very well-read,” he said. “In fact, hewas at Dr. Montgomery’s house to do a bit more reading. He said there was animportant file that was hidden someplace on the premises, and he had to stay for afew days to try and complete his investigation.”“So he didn’t take you to the school?” Violet asked.“He said it wasn’t safe for me to be seen,” Quigley said. “He explained that he waspart of a secret organization, and that my parents had been a part of it, too.”“V.F.D.,” Klaus said, and Quigley nodded in agreement.“Duncan and Isadora tried to tell us about V.F.D.,” Violet said, “but they never gotthe chance. We don’t even know what it stands for.”“It seems to stand for many things,” Quigley said, flipping pages in his notebook.“Nearly everything the organization uses, from the Volunteer Feline Detectives tothe Vernacularly Fastened Door, has the same initials.”“But what is the organization?” Violet asked. “What is V.F.D.?”“Jacques wouldn’t tell me,” Quigley said, “but I think the letters stand forVolunteer Fire Department.”“Volunteer Fire Department,” Violet repeated, and looked at her brother. “Whatdoes that mean?”“In some communities,” Klaus said, “there’s no official fire department, and sothey rely on volunteers to extinguish fires.”“I know that,” Violet said, “but what does that have to do with our parents, orCount Olaf, or anything that has happened to us? I always thought that knowing whatthe letters stood for would solve the mystery, but I’m as mystified as I ever was.”“Do you think our parents were secretly fighting fires?” Klaus asked.“But why would they keep it a secret?” Violet asked. “And why would they have asecret passageway underneath the house?”“Jacques said that the passageways were built by members of the organization,”Quigley said. “In the case of an emergency, they could escape to a safe place.”“But the tunnel we found connects our house to the home of Esmé Squalor,” Klaussaid. “That’s not a safe place.”“Something happened,” Quigley said. “Something that changed everything.” Heflipped through a few pages of his commonplace book until he found what he waslooking for. “Jacques Snicket called it a ‘schism,’” he said, “but I don’t know whatthat word means.”“A schism,” Klaus said, “is a division of a previously united group of people intotwo or more oppositional parties. It’s like a big argument, with everybody choosingsides.”“That makes sense,” Quigley said. “The way Jacques talked, it sounded like theentire organization was in chaos. Volunteers who were once working together arenow enemies. Places that were once safe are now dangerous. Both sides are using thesame codes, and the same disguises. Even the V.F.D. insignia used to represent thenoble ideals everyone shared, but now it’s all gone up in smoke.”“But how did the schism start?” Violet asked. “What was everyone fighting over?”“I don’t know,” Quigley said. “Jacques didn’t have much time to explain things tome.”“What was he doing?” Klaus asked.“He was looking for you,” Quigley replied. “He showed me a picture of all three ofyou, waiting at the dock on some lake, and asked me if I’d seen you anywhere. He knewthat you’d been placed in Count Olaf’s care, and all the terrible things that had happenedthere. He knew that you had gone to live with Dr. Montgomery. He even knew about someof the inventions you made, Violet, and the research you did, Klaus, and some of Sunny’stooth-related exploits. He wanted to find you before it was too late.”“Too late for what?” Violet said.“I don’t know,” Quigley said with a sigh. “Jacques spent a long time at Dr.Montgomery’s house, but he was too busy conducting his investigation to explaineverything to me. He would stay up all night reading and copying information intohis notebook, and then sleep all day, or disappear for hours at a time. And then oneday, he said he had to go interview someone in the town of Paltryville , but he nevercame back. I waited weeks and weeks for him to return. I read books in Dr.Montgomery’s library, and started a commonplace book of my own. At first it wasdifficult to find any information on V.F.D., but I took notes on anything I could find. Imust have read hundreds of books, but Jacques never returned. Finally, one morning,two things happened that made me decide not to wait any longer. The first was anarticle in The Daily Punctilio saying that my siblings had been kidnapped from theschool. I knew I had to do something. I couldn’t wait for Jacques Snicket or foranyone else.”The Baudelaires nodded in solemn agreement. “What was the second thing?”Violet asked.Quigley was silent for a moment, and he reached down to the ground and scoopedup a handful of ashes, letting them fall from his gloved hands. “I smelled smoke,” hesaid, “and when I opened the door of the Reptile Room, I saw that someone hadthrown a torch through the glass of the ceiling, starting a fire in the library. Withinminutes, the entire house was in flames.”“Oh,” Violet said quietly. “Oh” is a word which usually means something alongthe lines of, “I heard you, and I’m not particularly interested,” but in this case, ofcourse, the eldest Baudelaire meant something entirely different, and it is somethingthat is difficult to define. She meant “I am sad to hear that Uncle Monty’s houseburned down,” but that is not all. By “Oh,” Violet was also trying to describe hersadness about all of the fires that had brought Quigley and Klaus and herself here tothe Mortmain Mountains , to huddle in a circle and try to solve the mystery thatsurrounded them. When Violet said “Oh,” she was not only thinking of the fire in theReptile Room, but the fires that had destroyed the Baudelaire home, and theQuagmire home, and Heimlich Hospital, and Caligari Carnival, and the V.F.D.headquarters, where the smell of smoke still lingered around where the children weresitting. Thinking of all those fires made Violet feel as if the entire world were goingup in flames, and that she and her siblings and all the other decent people in theworld might never find a place that was truly safe.“Another fire,” Klaus murmured, and Violet knew he was thinking the same thing.“Where could you go, Quigley?”“The only place I could think of was Paltryville,” Quigley said. “The last time Isaw Jacques he’d said he was going there. I thought if I went there I might find himagain, and see if he could help me rescue Duncan and Isadora. Dr. Montgomery’satlas showed me how to get there, but I had to go on foot, because I was afraid thatanyone who might offer me a ride would be an enemy. It was a long time before Ifinally arrived, but as soon as I stepped into town I saw a large building that matchedthe tattoo on Jacques Snicket’s ankle. I thought it might be a safe place to go.”“Dr. Orwell’s office!” Klaus cried. “That’s not a safe place to go!”“Klaus was hypnotized there,” Violet explained, “and Count Olaf was disguised as—”“As a receptionist,” Quigley finished. “I know. His fake nameplate was still on thedesk. The office was deserted, but I could tell that Jacques had been there, becausethere were some notes in his handwriting that he’d left on the desk. With those notes,and the information I’d read in Dr. Montgomery’s library, I learned about the V.F.D.headquarters. So instead of waiting for Jacques again, I set out to find theorganization. I thought they were my best hope of rescuing my siblings.”“So you set off to the Mortmain Mountains by yourself?” Violet asked.“Not quite by myself,” Quigley said. “I had this backpack that Jacques left behind,with the Verdant Flammable Devices and a few other items, and I had mycommonplace book. And eventually, I ran into the Snow Scouts, and realized thathiding among them would be the quickest way to reach Mount Fraught .” He turned apage in his commonplace book and examined his notes. “Remarkable Phenomena ofthe Mortmain Mountains , which I read in Dr Montgomery’s library, had a hiddenchapter that told me all about the Vertical Flame Diversion and the VernacularlyFastened Door.”Klaus looked over Quigley’s shoulder to read his notes. “I should have read thatbook when I had the chance,” he said, shaking his head. “If we had known aboutV.F.D. when we were living with Uncle Monty, we might have avoided all the troublethat followed.”“When we were living with Uncle Monty,” Violet reminded him, “we were toobusy trying to escape Count Olaf’s clutches to do any additional research.”“I’ve had plenty of time to do research,” Quigley said, “but I still haven’t found allthe answers I’m looking for. I still haven’t found Duncan and Isadora, and I still don’tknow where Jacques Snicket is.”“He’s dead,” Klaus said, very quietly. “Count Olaf murdered him.”“I thought you might say that,” Quigley said. “I knew something was very wrongwhen he didn’t return. But what about my siblings? Do you know what happened tothem?”“They’re safe, Quigley,” Violet said. “We think they’re safe. We rescued themfrom Olaf’s clutches, and they escaped with a man named Hector.”“Escaped?” Quigley repeated. “Where did they go?”“We don’t know,” Klaus admitted. “Hector built a self-sustaining hot air mobilehome. It was like a flying house, kept in the air by a bunch of balloons, and Hectorsaid it could stay up in the sky forever.”“We tried to climb aboard,” Violet said, “but Count Olaf managed to stop us.”“So you don’t know where they are?” Quigley asked.“I’m afraid not,” Violet said, and patted his hand. “But Duncan and Isadora areintrepid people, Quigley. They survived for quite some time in Olaf’s clutches, takingnotes on his schemes and trying to pass on the information to us.”“Violet’s right,” Klaus said. “I’m sure that wherever they are, they’re continuingtheir research. Eventually, they’ll find out you’re alive, and they’ll come looking foryou, just like you went looking for them.”The two Baudelaires looked at one another and shivered. They had been talkingabout Quigley’s family, of course, but they felt as if they were talking about theirown. “I’m sure that if your parents are alive, they’re looking for you, too,” Quigleysaid, as if he’d read their minds. “And Sunny, too. Do you know where she is?”“Someplace nearby,” Violet said. “She’s with Count Olaf, and Olaf wanted to findthe headquarters, too.”“Maybe Olaf has already been here,” Quigley said, looking around at thewreckage. “Maybe he’s the one who burned this place down.”“I don’t think so,” Klaus said. “He wouldn’t have had time to burn this wholeplace down. We were right on his trail. Plus, I don’t think this place burned down allat once.”“Why not?” Quigley said.“It’s too big,” Klaus replied. “If the whole headquarters were burning, the skywould be covered in smoke.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “That much smoke would arouse too much suspicion.”“Where there’s smoke,” Quigley said, “there’s fire.”Violet and Klaus turned to their friend to agree, but Quigley was not looking at thetwo Baudelaires. He was looking past them, toward the frozen pool and the twofrozen tributaries, where the enormous windows of the V.F.D. kitchen had oncestood, and where I once chopped broccoli while the woman I loved mixed up a spicypeanut sauce to go with it, and he was pointing up toward the sky, where myassociates and I used to watch the volunteer eagles who could spot smoke from avery great distance.That afternoon, there were no eagles in the skies over the Mortmain Mountains,but as Violet and Klaus stood up and looked in the direction Quigley was pointing,there was something in the sky that caught their attention. Because when QuigleyQuagmire said, “Where there’s smoke, there’s fire,” he was not referring to Klaus’stheory about the destruction of V.F.D. headquarters. He was talking about the sight ofgreen smoke, wafting up into the sky from the peak of Mount Fraught, at the top ofthe slippery slope.C H A P T E RNineThe two elder Baudelaires stood for a moment with Quigley, gazing up at thesmall plume, a word which here means “mysterious cloud of green smoke.” After thelong, strange story he had told them about surviving the fire and what he had learnedabout V.F.D., they could scarcely believe that they were confronting another mystery.“It’s a Verdant Flammable Device,” Quigley said. “There’s someone at the top ofthe waterfall, sending a signal.”“Yes,” Violet said, “but who?”“Maybe it’s a volunteer, who escaped from the fire,” Klaus said. “They’resignaling to see if there are any other volunteers nearby.”“Or it could be a trap,” Quigley said. “They could be luring volunteers up to thepeak in order to ambush them. Remember, the codes of V.F.D. are used by both sidesof the schism.”“It hardly seems like a code,” Violet said. “We know that someone iscommunicating, but we don’t have the faintest idea who they are, or what they’resaying.”“This is what it must be like,” Klaus said thoughtfully, “when Sunny talks topeople who don’t know her very well.”At the mention of Sunny’s name, the Baudelaires were reminded of how muchthey missed her. “Whether it’s a volunteer or a trap,” Violet said, “it might be ouronly chance to find our sister.”“Or my sister and brother,” Quigley said.“Let’s signal back,” Klaus said. “Do you still have those Verdant FlammableDevices, Quigley?”“Of course,” Quigley said, taking the box of green tubes out of his backpack, “butBruce saw my matches and confiscated them, because children shouldn’t play withmatches.”“Confiscated them?” Klaus said. “Do you think he’s an enemy of V.F.D.?”“If everyone who said that children shouldn’t play with matches was an enemy ofV.F.D.,” Violet said with a smile, “then we wouldn’t have a chance of survival.”“But how are we going to light these without matches?” Quigley asked.Violet reached into her pocket. It was a bit tricky to tie her hair up in a ribbon, asall four drafts in the Valley of Four Drafts were blowing hard, but at last her hair wasout of her eyes, and the gears and levers of her inventing mind began to move as shegazed up at the mysterious signal.But of course this signal was neither a volunteer nor a trap. It was a baby, withunusually large teeth and a way of talking that some people found confusing. WhenSunny Baudelaire had said “lox,” for example, the member of Count Olaf’s troupehad assumed she was simply babbling, rather than explaining how she was going tocook the salmon that the hook-handed man had caught. “Lox” is a word which refersto smoked salmon, and it is a delicious way to enjoy freshly caught fish, particularlyif one has the appropriate accoutrements, a phrase which here means “bagels, creamcheese, sliced cucumber, black pepper, and capers, which can be eaten along with thelox for an enjoyable meal.” Lox also has an additional benefit of producing quite a bitof smoke as it is prepared, and this is the reason Sunny chose this method ofpreparing salmon, as opposed to gravlax, which is salmon marinated for several daysin a mixture of spices, or sashimi, which is salmon cut into pleasing shapes andsimply served raw. Remembering what Count Olaf had said about being able to seeeverything and everyone from the peak where he had brought her, the youngestBaudelaire realized that the phrase “where there’s smoke there’s fire” might be ableto help her. As Violet and Klaus heard Quigley’s extraordinary tale at the bottom ofthe frozen waterfall, Sunny hurried to prepare lox and send a signal to her siblings,who she hoped were nearby. First, she nudged the Verdant Flammable Device —which she, like everyone at the peak, believed was a cigarette — into a small patch ofweeds, in order to increase the smoke. Then she dragged over the covered casseroledish that she had been using as a makeshift bed, and placed the salmon inside it. In notime at all, the fish caught by the hook-handed man were absorbing the heat andsmoke from the simmering green tube, and a large plume of green smoke wasfloating up into the sky above Mount Fraught . Sunny gazed up at the signal shemade and couldn’t help smiling. The last time she had been separated from hersiblings, she had simply waited in the birdcage for them to come and rescue her, butshe had grown since then, and was able to take an active part in defeating Count Olafand his troupe while still having time to prepare a seafood dish“Something smells delicious,” said one of the white-faced women, walking by thecasserole dish. “I must admit, I had some doubts that an infant should be in charge ofthe cooking, but your salmon recipe seems like it will be very tasty indeed.”“There’s a word for the way she’s preparing the fish,” the hook-handed man said,“but I can’t remember what it is.”“Lox,” Sunny said, but no one heard her over the sound of Count Olaf stormingout of his tent, followed by Esmé and the two sinister visitors. Olaf was clutching theSnicket file and glaring down at Sunny with his shiny, shiny eyes.“Put that smoke out at once!” he ordered. “I thought you were a terrified orphanprisoner, but I’m beginning to think you’re a spy!”“What do you mean, Olaf?” asked the other white-faced woman. “She’s usingEsmé‘s cigarette to cook us some fish.”“Someone might see the smoke,” Esmé snarled, as if she had not been smokingherself just moments ago. “Where there’s smoke, there’s fire.”The man with a beard but no hair picked up a handful of snow and threw it ontothe weeds, extinguishing the Verdant Flammable Device. “Who are you signaling to,baby?” he asked, in his strange, hoarse voice. “If you’re a spy, we’re going to tossyou off this mountain.”“Goo goo,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “I’m going topretend I’m a helpless baby, instead of answering your question.”“You see?” the white-faced woman said, looking nervously at the man with abeard but no hair. “She’s just a helpless baby.”“Perhaps you’re right,” said the woman with hair but no beard. “Besides, there’sno reason to toss a baby off a mountain unless you absolutely have to.”“Babies can come in handy,” Count Olaf agreed. “In fact, I’ve been thinking aboutrecruiting more young people into my troupe. They’re less likely to complain aboutdoing my bidding.”“But we never complain,” the hook-handed man said. “I try to be asaccommodating as possible.”“Enough chitchat,” said the man with a beard but no hair. “We have a lot ofscheming to do, Olaf. I have some information that might help you with yourrecruiting idea, and according to the Snicket file, there’s one more safe place for thevolunteers to gather.”“The last safe place,” said the sinister woman. “We have to find it and burn itdown.”“And once we do,” Count Olaf said, “the last evidence of our plans will becompletely destroyed. We’ll never have to worry about the authorities again.”“Where is this last safe place?” asked Kevin.Olaf opened his mouth to answer, but the woman with hair but no beard stoppedhim with a quick gesture and a suspicious glance down at Sunny. “Not in front of thetoothy orphan,” she said, in her deep, deep voice. “If she learned what we were up to,she’d never sleep again, and you need your infant servant full of energy. Send heraway, and we’ll make our plans.”“Of course,” Olaf said, smiling nervously at the sinister visitors. “Orphan, go tomy car and remove all of the potato chip crumbs from the interior by blowing as hardas you can.”“Futil,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “That is an absolutelyimpossible chore,” but she walked unsteadily toward the car while Olaf’s troupelaughed and gathered around the flat rock to hear the new scheme. Passing theextinguished fire and the covered casserole dish where she would sleep that night,Sunny sighed sadly, thinking that her signal plan must have failed. But when shereached Olaf’s car and gazed down at the frozen waterfall, she saw something thatlightened her spirits, a phrase which here means “an identical plume of green smoke,coming from the very bottom of the slope.” The youngest Baudelaire looked down atthe smoke and smiled. “Sibling,” she said to herself. Sunny, of course, could not becertain that it was Violet and Klaus who were signaling to her, but she could hope itwas so, and hope was enough to cheer her up as she opened the door of the car andbegan blowing at the crumbs Olaf and his troupe had scattered all over theupholstery.But at the bottom of the frozen waterfall, the two elder Baudelaires did not feelnearly as hopeful as they stood with Quigley and watched the green smoke disappearfrom the highest peak.“Someone put out the Verdant Flammable Device,” Quigley said, holding thegreen tube to one side so he wouldn’t smell the smoke. “What do you think thatmeans?”“I don’t know,” Violet said, and sighed. “This isn’t working.”“Of course it’s working,” Klaus said. “It’s working perfectly. You noticed that theafternoon sun was reflecting off the frozen waterfall, and it gave you the idea to usethe scientific principles of the convergence and refraction of light — just like you didon Lake Lachrymose , when we were battling the leeches. So you used Colette’s handmirror to catch the sun’s rays and reflect them onto the end of the Verdant FlammableDevice, so we could light it and send a signal.”“Klaus is right,” Quigley said. “It couldn’t have worked better.”“Thank you,” Violet said, “but that’s not what I mean. I mean this code isn’tworking. We still don’t know who’s up on the peak, or why they were signaling us,and now the signal has stopped, but we still don’t know what it means.”“Maybe we should extinguish our Verdant Flammable Device, too,” Klaus said.“Maybe,” Violet agreed, “or maybe we should go up to the top of the waterfall andsee for ourselves who is there.”Quigley frowned, and took out his commonplace book. “The only way up to thehighest peak,” he said, “is the path that the Snow Scouts are taking. We’d have to goback through the Vernacularly Fastened Door, back down the Vertical FlameDiversion, back into the Volunteer Feline Detective cave, rejoin the scouts and hikefor a long time.”“That’s not the only way up to the peak,” Violet said with a smile.“Yes, it is,” Quigley insisted. “Look at the map.”“Look at the waterfall,” Violet replied, and all three children looked up at the shinyslope.“Do you mean,” Klaus said, “that you think you can invent something which canget us up a frozen waterfall?”But Violet was already tying her hair out of her eyes again, and looking around atthe ruins of the V.F.D. headquarters. “I’ll need that ukulele that you took from thecaravan,” she said to Klaus, “and that half-melted candelabra over there by the diningroom table.” Klaus took the ukulele from his coat pocket and handed it to his sister,and then walked over to the table to retrieve the strange, melted object. “Unless youneed any further assistance,” he said, “I think I might go examine the wreckage of thelibrary and see if any documents have survived. We might as well learn as much fromthis headquarters as we can.”“Good idea,” Quigley said, and reached into his backpack. He brought out anotebook much like his own, except it had a dark blue cover. “I have a sparenotebook,” he said. “You might be interested in starting a commonplace book of yourown.”“That’s very kind of you,” Klaus said. “I’ll write down anything I find. Do youwant to join the search?”“I think I’ll stay here,” Quigley said, looking at Violet. “I’ve heard quite a bitabout Violet Baudelaire’s marvelous inventions, and I’d like to see her at work.”Klaus nodded, and walked off to the iron archway marking the entrance of theruined library, while Violet blushed and leaned down to pick up one of the forks thathad survived the fire.It is one of the great sadnesses of the Baudelaire case that Violet never got to meeta man named C. M. Kornbluth, an associate of mine who spent most of his life livingand working in the Valley of Four Drafts as a mechanical instructor at the V.F.D.headquarters. Mr. Kornbluth was a quiet and secretive man, so secretive that no oneever knew who he was, where he came from, or even what the C or the M stood for,and he spent much of his time holed up in his dormitory room writing strange stories,or gazing sadly out the windows of the kitchen. The one thing that put Mr. Kornbluthin a good mood would be a particularly promising mechanical student. If a youngman showed an interest in deep sea radar, Mr. Kornbluth would take off his glassesand smile. If a young woman brought him a staple gun she had built, Mr. Kornbluthwould clap his hands in excitement. And if a pair of twins asked him how to properlyreroute some copper wiring, he would take a paper bag out of his pocket and offersome pistachio nuts to anyone who happened to be around. So, when I think of VioletBaudelaire standing in the wreckage of the V.F.D. headquarters, carefully taking thestrings off the ukulele and bending some of the forks in half, I can imagine Mr.Kornbluth, even though he and his pistachios are long gone, turning from thewindow, smiling at the Baudelaire inventor, and saying, “Beatrice, come over here!Look at what this girl is making!”“What are you making?” Quigley asked.“Something that will get us up that waterfall,” Violet replied. “I only wish thatSunny were here. Her teeth would be perfect to slice these ukulele strings intohalves.”“I might have something that could help ” Quigley said, looking through hisbackpack “When I was in Dr. Orwell’s office, I found these fake fingernails. They’rea horrible shade of pink, but they’re quite sharp.”Violet took a fingernail from Quigley and looked at it carefully. “I think CountOlaf was wearing these,” she said, “as part of his receptionist disguise. It’s so strangethat you have been following in our footsteps all this time, and yet we never evenknew you were alive.”“I knew you were alive,” Quigley said. “Jacques Snicket told me all about you,Klaus, Sunny, and even your parents. He knew them quite well before you wereborn.”“I thought so,” Violet said, cutting the ukulele strings. “In the photograph wefound, my parents are standing with Jacques Snicket and another man.”“He’s probably Jacques’s brother,” Quigley aid. “Jacques told me that he wasworking closely with his two siblings on an important file.”“The Snicket file,” Violet said. “We were hoping to find it here.”Quigley looked up at the frozen waterfall. “Maybe whoever signaled us will knowwhere it is,” he said.“We’ll find out soon enough,” Violet said. “Please take off your shoes.”“My shoes?” Quigley asked.“The waterfall will be very slippery,” Violet explained, “so I’m using the ukulelestrings to tie these bent forks to the toe area, to make fork-assisted climbing shoes.We’ll hold two more forks in our hands. Tines of the forks are almost as sharp asSunny’s teeth, so the fork-assisted climbing shoes will easily dig into the ice witheach step, and enable us to keep our balance.”“But what’s the candelabra for?” Quigley asked, unlacing his shoes.“I’m going to use it as an ice tester,” Violet said. “A moving body of water, such asa waterfall, is rarely completely frozen. There are probably places on that slopewhere there is only a thin layer of ice, particularly with False Spring on its way. If westuck our forks through the ice and hit water, we’d lose our grip and fall. So I’ll tapon the ice with the candelabra before each step, to find the solid places we shouldclimb.”“It sounds like a difficult journey,” Quigley said.“No more difficult than climbing up the Vertical Flame Diversion,” Violet said,tying a fork onto Quigley’s shoe. “I’m using the Sumac knot, so it should hold tight.Now, all we need is Klaus’s shoes, and — ”“I’m sorry to interrupt, but I think this might be important,” Klaus said, and Violetturned to see that her brother had returned. He was holding the dark blue notebook inone hand and a small, burnt piece of paper in the other. “I found this scrap of paper ina pile of ashes,” he said. “It’s from some kind of code book.”“What does it say?” Violet asked.“‘In the e flagration resulting in the destruction of a sanc ,’” Klaus read, “’ teersshould avail themselves of Verbal Fri Dialogue, which is concealed accordingly.’”“That doesn’t make any sense,” Quigley said. “Do you think it’s in code?”“Sort of,” Klaus said. “Parts of the sentence are burned away, so you have to figurethe sentence out as if it’s encoded. ‘Flagration’ is probably the last part of the word‘conflagration,’ a fancy word for fire, and ‘sanc’ is probably the beginning of theword ‘sanctuary,’ which means a safe place. So the sentence probably begansomething like, ‘In the event of a conflagration resulting in the destruction of asanctuary.’”Violet stood up and looked over his shoulder. “‘Teers,’” she said, “is probably‘volunteers,’ but I don’t know what ‘avail themselves’ means.”“It means ‘to make use of,’” Klaus said, ‘like you’re availing yourself of theukulele and those forks. Don’t you see? This says that in case a safe place burnsdown, they’ll leave some sort of message — ‘Verbal Fri Dialogue.’”“But what could ‘Verbal Fri Dialogue’ be?” Quigley asked. “Friends? Frisky?”“Frilly?” Violet guessed. “Frightening?”“But it says that it’s concealed accordingly,” Klaus pointed out. “That means thatthe dialogue is hidden in a logical way. If it were Verbal Waterfall Dialogue, it wouldbe hidden in the waterfall. So none of those words can be right. Where wouldsomeone leave a message where fire couldn’t destroy it?”“But fire destroys everything,” Violet said. “Look at the headquarters. Nothing isleft standing except the library entrance, and …”“… and the refrigerator,” Klaus finished. “Or, we might say, the fridge.”“Verbal Fridge Dialogue!” Quigley said.“The volunteers left a message,” said Klaus, who was already halfway to therefrigerator, “in the only place they knew wouldn’t be affected by the fire.”“And the one place their enemies wouldn’t think of looking,” Quigley said. “Afterall, there’s never anything terribly important in the refrigerator.”What Quigley said, of course, is not entirely true. Like an envelope, a hollowfigurine, and a coffin, a refrigerator can hold all sorts of things, and they may turn outto be very important depending on what kind of day you are having. A refrigeratormay hold an icepack, for example, which would be important if you had beenwounded. A refrigerator may hold a bottle of water, which would be important if youwere dying of thirst. And a refrigerator may hold a basket of strawberries, whichwould be important if a maniac said to you, “If you don’t give me a basket ofstrawberries right now, I’m going to poke you with this large stick.” But when thetwo elder Baudelaires and Quigley Quagmire opened the refrigerator, they foundnothing that would help someone who was wounded, dying of thirst, or beingthreatened by a strawberry-crazed, stick-carrying maniac or anything that lookedimportant at all. The fridge was mostly empty, with just a few of the usual thingspeople keep in their refrigerators and rarely use, including a jar of mustard, acontainer of olives, three jars of different kinds of jam, a bottle of lemon juice, andone lonely pickle in a small glass jug.“There’s nothing here,” Violet said.“Look in the crisper,” Quigley said, pointing to a drawer in the refrigeratortraditionally used for storing fruits and vegetables. Klaus opened the drawer andpulled out a few strands of a green plant with tiny, skinny leaves.“It smells like dill,” Klaus said, “and it’s quite crisp, as if it were pickedyesterday.”“Very Fresh Dill,” Quigley said.“Another mystery,” Violet said, and tears filled her eyes. “We have nothing butmysteries. We don’t know where Sunny is. We don’t know where Count Olaf is. Wedon’t know who’s signaling to us at the top of the waterfall, or what they’re trying tosay, and now here’s a mysterious message in a mysterious ode in a mysteriousrefrigerator, and a bunch of mysterious herbs in the crisper. I’m tired of mysteries. Iwant someone to help us.”“We can help each other,” Klaus said. “We have your inventions, and Quigley’smaps, and my research.”“And we’re all very well-read,” Quigley said. “That should be enough to solve anymystery.”Violet sighed, and kicked at something that lay on the ashen ground. It was thesmall shell of a pistachio nut, blackened from the fire that destroyed the headquarters.“It’s like we’re members of V.F.D. already,” she said. “We’re sending signals, andbreaking codes, and finding secrets in the ruins of a fire.”“Do you think our parents would be proud of us,” Klaus asked, “for following intheir footsteps?”“I don’t know,” Violet said. “After all, they kept V.F.D. a secret.”“Maybe they were going to tell us later,” Klaus said.“Or maybe they hoped we would never find out,” Violet said.“I keep wondering the same thing,” Quigley said. “If I could travel back in time tothe moment my mother showed me the secret passageway under the library, I wouldask her why she was keeping these secrets.”“That’s one more mystery,” Violet said sadly, and looked up at the slippery slope.It was getting later and later in the afternoon, and the frozen waterfall looked less andless shiny in the fading sunlight, as if time were running out to climb to the top andsee who had been signaling to them. “We should each investigate the mystery we’remost likely to solve,” she said. “I’ll climb up the waterfall, and solve the mystery ofthe Verdant Flammable Device by learning who’s up there, and what they want. Youshould stay down here, Klaus, and solve the mystery of the Verbal Fridge Dialogue,by learning the code and discovering what the message is.”“And I’ll help you both,” Quigley said, taking out his purple notebook. “I’ll leavemy commonplace book with Klaus, in case it’s any help with the codes. And I’llclimb up the waterfall with you, Violet, in case you need my help.”“Are you sure?” Violet asked. “You’ve already taken us this far, Quigley. Youdon’t have to risk your life any further.”“We’ll understand,” Klaus said, “if you want to leave and search for yoursiblings.”“Don’t be absurd,” Quigley said. “We’re all part of this mystery, whatever it is. Ofcourse I’m going to help you.”The two Baudelaires looked at one another and smiled. It is so rare in this world tomeet a trustworthy person who truly wants to help you, and finding such a person canmake you feel warm and safe, even if you are in the middle of a windy valley high upin the mountains. For a moment, as their friend smiled back at them, it seemed as ifall the mysteries had been solved already, even with Sunny still separated from them,and Count Olaf still at large, and the abandoned V.F.D. headquarters still in ashesaround them. Just knowing that they had found a person like Quigley Quagmire madeViolet and Klaus feel as if every code made sense, and every signal was clear.Violet stepped forward, her fork-assisted climbing shoes making small, determinednoises on the ground, and took Quigley’s hand. “Thank you,” she said, “forvolunteering.”C H A P T E RTenViolet and Quigley walked carefully across the frozen pool until they reached thebottom of the waterfall. “Good luck!” Klaus called, from the archway of the ruinedlibrary. He was polishing his glasses, as he often did before embarking on seriousresearch.“Good luck to you!” Violet replied, shouting over the rush of the mountain winds,and as she looked back at her brother, she remembered when the two siblings weretrying to stop the caravan as it hurtled down the mountain. Klaus had wanted to saysomething to her, in case the drag chute and the mixture of sticky substances hadn’tworked. Violet had the same feeling now as she prepared to climb the frozenwaterfall and leave her brother behind at the ashy remains of the V.F.D. headquarters.“Klaus — ” she said.Klaus put his glasses on and gave his sister his bravest smile. “Whatever you’rethinking of saying,” he said, “say it when you return.”Violet nodded, and tapped the candelabra against a spot on the ice. She heard adeep thunk!, as if she were tapping something very solid. “We’ll start here,” she saidto Quigley. “Brace yourself.”The expression “brace yourself,” as I’m sure you know, does not mean to takesome metal wiring and rivets and other orthodontic materials and apply them to yourown teeth in order straighten them. The expression simply means “get ready forsomething that will probably be difficult,”and it was indeed very difficult to climb afrozen waterfall in the middle of a windswept valley with nothing but a candelabraand a few well-placed forks to aid the two children in their climb. It took a fewmoments for Violet and Quigley to work her invention properly, and push the forksinto the ice just far enough to hold them there, but not so far that they would bepermanently stuck, and once both of them were in position, Violet had to reach up asfar as she could and tap the candelabra on the ice above them to find the next solidplace to climb. For the first few steps, it seemed like ascending the icy slope in thismanner would be impossible, but as time went on, and the two volunteers grew moreand more skillful with the forktipped climbing shoes and the candelabra ice-tester, itbecame clear that once again Violet’s inventing skills would carry the day, a phrasewhich here means “enable Violet Baudelaire and Quigley Quagmire to climb up afrozen waterfall after bracing themselves for the difficult journey.”“Your invention is working,” Quigley called up to Violet. “These fork-assistedclimbing shoes are marvelous.”“They do seem to be working,” Violet agreed, “but let’s not celebrate just yet. Wehave a long way to go.”“My sister wrote a couplet about that very thing,” Quigley said, and recitedIsadora’s poem:“Celebrate when you’re half-done, And the finish won’t be half as fun.”Violet smiled, and reached up to test the ice above her. “Isadora is a good poet,”Violet said, “and her poems have come in handy more than once. When we were atthe Village of Fowl Devotees, she led us to her location by hiding a secret message ina series of couplets.”“I wonder if that’s a code she learned from V.F.D.,” Quigley said, “or if she madeit up herself.”“I don’t know,” Violet said thoughtfully. “She and Duncan were the first to tell usabout V.F.D., but it never occurred to me that they might already be members. WhenI think about it, however, the code she used was similar to one that our AuntJosephine used. They both hid a secret location within a note, and waited for us todiscover the hidden message. Maybe they were all volunteers.” She removed her leftfork-assisted climbing shoe from the ice, and kicked it back in a few inches up tofurther her climb. “Maybe all our guardians have been members of V.F.D., on oneside or the other of the schism.”“It’s hard to believe,” Quigley said, “that we’ve always been surrounded by peoplecarrying out secret errands, and never known it.”“It’s hard to believe that we’re climbing a frozen waterfall in the MortmainMountains ,” Violet replied, “and yet, here we are. There Quigley, do you see theledge where my left-fork is? It’s solid enough for both of us to sit for a moment andcatch our breath.”“Good,” Quigley said. “I have a small bag of carrots in my backpack we can eat toregain our energy.” The triplet climbed up to where Violet was sitting, on a smallledge scarcely the size of a sofa, and slid so he was sitting next to her. The twoclimbers could see that they had traveled farther than they’d thought. Far below themwere the blackened ruins of the headquarters, and Klaus was only a small speck neara tiny iron archway. Quigley handed Violet a carrot, and she bit down on itthoughtfully.“Sunny loves raw carrots,” Violet said. “I hope that she’s eating well, wherever sheis.”“I hope my siblings are eating well, too,” Quigley said. “My father always used tosay that a good meal can cheer one up considerably.”“My father always said the same thing,” Violet said, looking at Quigley curiously.“Do you think that was a code, too?”Quigley shrugged and sighed. Small bits of ice from the waterfall fell from theends of forks and blew away in the wind. “It’s like we never really knew ourparents,” he said.“We knew them,” Violet said. “They just had a few secrets, that’s all. Everyoneshould keep a few secrets.”“I suppose so,’ Quigley said, ”but they might have mentioned that they were in asecret organization with a headquarters hidden in the Mortmain Mountains .”“Maybe they didn’t want us to find out about such a dangerous place,” Violet said,peering off the ledge, “although if you have to hide a headquarters, it’s a beautifulplace to do it. Aside from the remains of the fire, this is a very lovely view.”“Very lovely indeed,” Quigley said, but he was not looking at the view beneathhim. He was looking beside him, where Violet Baudelaire was sitting.Many things have been taken from the three Baudelaires. Their parents were taken,of course, and their home was taken from them, by a terrible fire. Their variousguardians were taken from them, because they were murdered by Count Olaf or weresimply miserable guardians who soon lost interest in three young children withnowhere to go. The Baudelaires’ dignity was taken from them, on the occasions whenthe siblings were forced to wear absurd disguises, and recently they had been takenfrom one another, with the kidnapped Sunny doing chores at the top of the frozenwaterfall while Violet and Klaus learned the secrets of V.F.D. at the bottom. But onething that was taken from the Baudelaires that is not often discussed is their privacy,a word which here means “time by oneself, without anyone watching or interfering.’Unless you are a hermit or half of a pair of Siamese twins, you probably enjoy takingthe occasional break from members of your family to enjoy some privacy, perhapswith a friend or companion, in your room or in a railway car you have managed tosneak aboard. But since that dreadful day at Briny Beach , when Mr. Poe arrived totell the Baudelaires that their parents had perished, the three children had scarcelyhad any privacy at all. From the small, dark bedroom where they slept at CountOlaf’s house, to the crowded caravan at Caligari Carnival, and all of the other woefulplaces in between, the Baudelaires’ situation was always so desperate and crampedthat they were rarely able to spare a moment for a bit of private time.So, as Violet and Quigley rest for a few minutes more on a ledge halfway up thefrozen waterfall, I will take this opportunity to give them a bit of privacy, by notwriting down anything more of what happened between these two friends on thatchilly afternoon. Certainly there are aspects of my own personal life that I will neverwrite down, however precious they are to me, and I will offer the eldest Baudelairethe same courtesy. I will tell you that the two young people resumed their climb, andthat the afternoon slowly turned to evening and that both Violet and Quigley hadsmall secret smiles on their faces as the candelabra ice-tester and the fork-assistedclimbing shoes helped them both get closer and closer to the mountains’ highestpeak, but there has been so little privacy in the life of Violet Baudelaire that I willallow her to keep a few important moments to herself, rather than sharing them withmy distressed and weeping readers.“We’re almost there,” Violet said. “It’s difficult to see with the sun going down,but I believe we’re just about at the top of the peak.”“I can’t believe we’ve been climbing all afternoon,” Quigley said.“Not all afternoon,” she reminded him with a shy smile. “I guess this waterfall isabout as high as 667 Dark Avenue . It took a very long time to go up and down thatelevator shaft trying to rescue your siblings. I hope this is a more successful journey.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery Slope“Me, too,” Quigley said. “What do you think we will find at the top?”“Set!” came the reply.“I couldn’t hear you over the wind,” Quigley said. “What did you say?”“I didn’t say anything,” Violet said. She squinted above her, trying to see in thelast of the sunset, and scarcely daring to hope that she had heard correctly.Out of all the words in the English language, the word “set” has the mostdefinitions, and if you open a good dictionary and read the word’s long, long entry,you will begin to think that “set” is scarcely a word at all, only a sound that meanssomething different depending on who is saying it. If a group of jazz musicians says“set,” for instance, they are probably referring to the songs they are planning to playat a club that evening, assuming it doesn’t burn down. If the owner of a restaurantuses the word “set,” they might mean group of matching wineglasses, or a bunch ofwaitresses who look exactly alike. A librarian will say “set” to refer to a collection ofbooks that are all by the same author or about the same subject, and an Egyptologistwill use the word “set” to refer to the ancient god of evil, although he does not comeup very often in conversation. But when Violet heard the word “set” from the top ofMount Fraught , she did not think there was a group of jazz musicians, a restaurantowner, a librarian, or an Egyptologist talking about jazz tunes, wineglasses,waitresses, thematically linked books, or a black, immoral aardvark who is the swornenemy of the god Osiris. She reached her fork as high as she could so she couldclimb closer, and saw the rays of the sunset reflect off a large tooth, and Violet knewthat this time, the definition of “set” was “I knew you would find me!” and thespeaker was Sunny Baudelaire. “Set!” Sunny said again.“Sunny!” Violet cried.“Sssh!” Sunny said.“What is going on?” Quigley asked, several forksteps behind Violet.“It’s Sunny,” Violet said, and hoisted herself onto the peak to see her baby sister,standing next to Count Olaf’s car and grinning from ear to ear. Without another word,the two Baudelaire sisters hugged fiercely, Violet taking care not to poke Sunny withone of the forks she was holding. By the time Quigley reached the top of the peakand pulled himself up to lean against one of the car’s tires, the two Baudelaires weresmiling at each other with tears in their eyes.“I knew we’d see you again, Sunny,” Violet said. “I just knew it.”“Klaus?” Sunny asked.“He’s safe and nearby,” Violet said. “He knew we could find you, too.”“Set,” Sunny agreed, but then she noticed Quigley and her eyes grew wide.“Quagmire?” she asked in amazement.“Yes,” Violet said. “This is Quigley Quagmire, Sunny. He survived the fire afterall.”Sunny walked unsteadily over to Quigley and shook his hand. “He led us to theheadquarters, Sunny, with a map he drew himself.”“Arigato,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “I appreciate your help,Quigley.”“Was it you who signaled us?” Quigley asked.“Yep,” Sunny said. “Lox.”“Count Olaf’s been making you do the cooking?” Violet asked in amazement.“Vaccurum,” Sunny said.“Olaf even made her clean crumbs out of the car,” Violet translated to Quigley, “byblowing as hard as she could.”“That’s ridiculous!” Quigley said.“Cinderella,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of, “I’ve had to doall of the chores, while being humiliated at every turn,” but Violet had no time totranslate over the sound of Count Olaf’s scratchy voice.“Where are you, Babylaire?” he asked, adding an absurd nickname to his list ofinsults. “I’ve thought of more tasks for you to perform.”The three children looked at one another in panic. “Hide,” Sunny whispered, andthere was no need for translation. Violet and Quigley looked around the desolatelandscape of the peak for a place to hide, but there was only one place to go.“Under the car,” Violet said, and she and Quigley wriggled underneath the long,black automobile, which was as dirty and smelly as its owner. As an inventor, theeldest Baudelaire had stared closely at automotive machinery plenty of times, but shehad never seen such an extreme state of disrepair, a phrase which here means “anunderside of an automobile in such bad shape that it was dripping oil on her and hercompanion.” But Violet and Quigley didn’t have a moment to waste thinking of theirdiscomfort. They had no sooner moved their fork-assisted climbing shoes out of viewwhen Count Olaf and his companions arrived. From underneath he car, the twovolunteers could see only the villain’s tattoo on the filthy ankle above his left shoeand a pair of very stylish pumps, decorated with glitter and tiny paintings of eyes,that could only belong to Esmé Squalor.“All we’ve had to eat all day is that smoked salmon, and it’s almost dinnertime,”Count Olaf said. “You’d better get cooking, orphan.”“Tomorrow is False Spring,” Esmé said, “and it would be very in to have a FalseSpring dinner.”“Did you hear that, toothy?” Olaf asked. “My girlfriend wants a stylish dinner. Getto work.”“Olaf, we need you,” said a very deep voice, and Violet and Quigley saw two pairsof sinister black shoes appear behind the villain and his girlfriend, whose shoestwitched nervously at the sight of them. All of a sudden, it seemed much colderunderneath the car, and Violet had to push her legs against the tires, so they wouldnot shiver against the mechanics of the underside and be heard.“Yes, Olaf,” agreed the hoarse voice of the man with a beard but no hair, althoughViolet and Quigley could not see him. “Our recruitment plan will happen first thingin the morning so we need you to help spread the net out on the ground.”“Can’t you ask one of our employees?” asked Esmé. “There’s the hook-handedman the two white-faced women, and the three freaks we picked up at the carnival.That’s eight people, if you include yourselves, to spread out the net. Why should wedo it?”The four black shoes stepped toward Esmé‘s stylish pumps and Olaf’s tattoo.“You’ll do it,” said the woman with hair but no beard, “because I say so.”There was a long, ominous pause, and then Count Olaf gave a little high-pitchedlaugh. “That’s a good point,” he said. “Come on, Esmé. We’ve bossed around thebaby, so there’s nothing else to do around here anyway.”“That’s true,” Esmé agreed. “In fact, I was thinking about taking up smokingagain, because I’m bored. Do you have any more of those green cigarettes?”“I’m afraid not,” replied the man with a beard but no hair, leading the villainsaway from the car. “That’s the only one I found.”“That’s too bad,” Esmé said. “I don’t like the taste or the smell, and they’re verybad for you, but cigarettes are very in and I’d like to smoke another one.”“Maybe there’s another one in the ruins of headquarters,” said the woman withhair but no beard. “It’s hard to find everything in all those ashes. We searched fordays and couldn’t find the sugar bowl.”“Not in front of the baby,” Olaf said quickly, and the four pairs of shoes walkedaway. Violet and Quigley stayed underneath the car until Sunny said “Coastkleer,”which meant something like, “It’s safe to come out now.”“Those were terrible people,” Quigley said with a shudder, brushing oil and grimeoff his coat. “They made me feel cold all over.”“They certainly had an aura of menace ” Violet agreed in a whisper. “The feet withthe tattoo were Count Olaf, and those glittery shoes were Esmé Squalor, but whowere the other two, Sunny?”“Unno Narsonist,” Sunny murmured. She meant something along the lines of “Idon’t know, but they burned down V.F.D. headquarters,” and Violet was quick toexplain this to Quigley.“Klaus has found an important message that survived the fire,” Violet said. “Bythe time we take you down the waterfall, I’m sure he’ll have decoded the message.Come on.”“Nogo,” Sunny said, which meant “I don’t think I ought to accompany you.”“Why on earth not?” Violet asked.“Unasanc,” Sunny said.“Sunny says that the villains have mentioned one more safe place for volunteers togather,” Violet explained to Quigley.“Do you know where it is?” Quigley asked.Sunny shook her head. “Olafile,” she said.“But if Count Olaf has the Snicket file,” Violet said, “how are you going to findout where this safe place is?”“Matahari,” she said, which meant something like, “If I stay, I can spy on themand find out.”“Absolutely not,” Violet said, after she had translated. “It’s not safe for you to stayhere, Sunny. It’s bad enough that Olaf has made you do the cooking.”“Lox,” Sunny pointed out.“But what are you going to make for a False Spring dinner?” Violet asked.Sunny gave her sister a smile, and walked over to the trunk of the car. Violet andQuigley heard her rummaging around among the remaining groceries, but stayed putso Olaf or any of his associates wouldn’t spot them. When Sunny returned, she had atriumphant smile on her face, and the frozen hunk of spinach, the large bag ofmushrooms, the can of water chestnuts, and the enormous eggplant in her arms.“False spring rolls!” she said, which meant something like, “An assortment ofvegetables wrapped in spinach leaves, prepared in honor of False Spring.”“I’m surprised you can even carry that eggplant, let alone prepare it,” Violet said.“It must weigh as much as you do.”“Suppertunity,” Sunny said. She meant something like, “Serving the troupe dinnerwill be a perfect chance to listen to their conversation,” and Violet reluctantlytranslated.“It sounds dangerous,” Quigley said.“Of course it’s dangerous,” Violet said. “If she’s caught spying, who knows whatthey’ll do?”“Ga ga goo goo,” Sunny said, which meant “I won’t be caught, because they thinkI’m only a helpless baby.”“I think your sister is right,” Quigley said. “It wouldn’t be safe to carry her downthe waterfall, anyway. We need our hands and feet for the climb. Let Sunnyinvestigate the mystery she’s most likely to solve, while we work on an escape plan.”Violet shook her head. “I don’t want to leave my sister behind,” she said. “TheBaudelaires should never be separated.”“Separate Klaus,” Sunny pointed out.“If there’s another place where volunteers are gathering,” Quigley said, “we needto know where it is. Sunny can find out for us, but only if she stays here.”“I’m not going to leave my baby sister on top of a mountain,” Violet said.Sunny dropped her vegetables on the ground and walked over to her sister andsmiled. “I’m not a baby,” Sunny said, and hugged her. It was the longest sentence theyoungest Baudelaire had ever said, and as Violet looked down at her sister, she sawhow true it was. Sunny was not really a baby, not anymore. She was a young girl withunusually sharp teeth, some impressive cooking skills, and an opportunity to spy on agroup of villains and discover a piece of crucial information. Sometime, during theunfortunate events that had befallen the three orphans, Sunny had grown out of herbabyhood, and although it made Violet a bit sad to think about it, it made her proud,too, and she gave her sister a smile.“I guess you’re right,” Violet said. “You’re not a baby. But be careful, Sunny.You’re a young girl, but it’s still quite dangerous for a young girl to spy on villains.And remember, we’re right at the bottom of the slope, Sunny. If you need us, justsignal again.”Sunny opened her mouth to reply, but before she could utter a sound, the threechildren heard a long, lazy hissing noise from underneath Olaf’s car, as if one of Dr.Montgomery’s snakes were hiding there. The car shifted lightly, and Violet pointed toone of Olaf’s tires, which had gone flat. “I must have punctured it,” Violet said, “withmy fork-assisted climbing shoes.”“I suppose that’s not a nice thing to do,” Quigley said, “but I can’t say I’m sorry.”“How’s dinner coming along, toothface?” called Count Olaf’s cruel voice over thesound of the wind.“I guess we’d better leave before we’re discovered,” Violet said, giving her sisterone more hug and a kiss on the top of her head. “We’ll see you soon, Sunny.”“Good-bye, Sunny,” Quigley said. “I’m so glad we finally met in person. Andthank you very much for helping us find the last safe place.”Sunny Baudelaire looked up at Quigley, and then at her older sister, and gave themboth a big, happy smile that showed all of her impressive teeth. After spending somuch time in the company of villains, she was happy to be with some people whorespected her skills, appreciated her work, and understood her way of speaking. Evenwith Klaus still at the bottom of the waterfall, Sunny felt as if she had already beenhappily reunited with her family, and that her time in the Mortmain Mountains wouldhave a happy ending. She was wrong about that of course, but for now the youngestBaudelaire smiled up at these two people who cared about her, one she had just metand one she had known her entire life, and felt as if she were growing taller at thatvery moment.“Happy,” said the young girl, and everyone who heard her knew what she wastalkingabout .As Violet and Quigley climbed back down the slippery slope of the frozenwaterfall, their fork-assisted climbing shoes poking into the ice with each step, theylooked down and saw, by the last light of the setting sun, the figure of Klaus. He washolding a flashlight over his head to help the two climbers find their way down, but itlooked as if he’d just had an idea.“He must have found a flashlight in the wreckage,” Quigley said. “It looks like theone Jacques gave me.”“I hope he found enough information to decode Verbal Fridge Dialogue,” Violetsaid, and tapped the candelabra below her feet. “Be careful here, Quigley. The icefeels thin. We’ll have to climb around it.”“The ice has been less solid on our way down,” Quigley said.“That’s not surprising,” Violet said. “We’ve poked a great deal of it with forks. Bythe time False Spring arrives, this whole slope will probably only be half frozen.”“By the time False Spring arrives,” Quigley said, “I hope we’ll be on our way tothe last safe place.”“Me, too,” Violet said quietly, and the two climbers said no more until theyreached the bottom of the waterfall and walked carefully across the frozen pool alongthe path Klaus shone with his flashlight.“I’m so glad you returned in one piece,” Klaus said, shining his flashlight in thedirection of the dining room remains. “It looked like a very slippery journey. It’sgetting cold, but if we sit behind the library entrance, we’ll be away from much of thewind.”But Violet was so eager to tell her brother who they had found at the top of thepeak that she could not wait another moment. “It’s Sunny,” she said. “Sunny’s at thetop. It was her who was signaling us.”“Sunny?” Klaus said, his eyes as wide as his smile. “How did she get up there? Isshe safe? Why didn’t you bring her back?”“She’s safe,” Violet said. “She’s with Count Olaf, but she’s safe.”“Has he harmed her?” Klaus asked.Violet shook her head. “No,” she said. “He’s making her do all the cooking andcleaning.”“But she’s a baby!” Klaus said.“Not anymore,” Violet said. “We haven’t noticed, Klaus, but she’s grown up quitea bit. She’s really too young to be in charge of all the chores, of course, butsometime, during all the hardship we’ve been through, she stopped being a baby.”“She’s old enough to eavesdrop,” Quigley said. “She’s already discovered whoburned down the V.F.D. headquarters.”“They’re two terrible people, a man and a woman, who have quite an aura ofmenace,” Violet said. “Even Count Olaf is a little afraid of them.”“What are they all doing up there?” Klaus asked.“They’re having some sort of villainous meeting,” Quigley said. “We heard themmention something about a recruitment plan, and a large net.”“That doesn’t sound pleasant,” Klaus said.“There’s more, Klaus,” Violet said. “Count Olaf has the Snicket file, and he foundout about some secret location — the last safe place where the V.F.D. can gather.That’s why Sunny stayed up there. If she overhears where the place is, we’ll knowwhere to go to meet up with the rest of the volunteers.”“I hope she manages to find out,” Klaus said. “Without that piece of information,all that I’ve discovered is useless.”“What have you discovered?” Quigley asked.“I’ll show you,” Klaus said, and led the way to the ruins of the library, whereViolet could see he’d been working. His dark blue notebook was open, and she couldsee that several pages were filled with notes. Nearby were several half-burnt scrapsof paper, stacked underneath a burnt teacup Klaus was using for a paperweight, andall of the contents of the refrigerator were laid out in a careful half circle: the jar ofmustard, the container of olives, three jars of jam, and the very fresh dill. The smallglass jug, containing one pickle, and the bottle of lemon juice were off to one side.“This is some of the most difficult research I’ve ever done,” Klaus said, sitting downnext to his notebook. “Justice Strauss’s legal library was confusing, and AuntJosephine’s grammatical library was dull, but the ruined V.F.D. library is a muchbigger challenge. Even if I know what book I’m looking for, it may be nothing butashes.”“Did you find anything about Verbal Fridge Dialogue?” Quigley asked, sittingbeside him.“Not at first,” Klaus said. “The scrap of paper that led us to the refrigerator was ina large pile of ashes, and it took awhile to sift through it. But I finally found one pagethat was probably from the same book.” He reached for his notebook and held up hisflashlight so he could see the pages. “The page was so delicate,” he said, “that Iimmediately copied it into my commonplace book. It explains how the whole codeworks.”“Read it to us,” Violet said, and Klaus complied, a word which here means“followed Violet’s suggestion and read a very complicated paragraph out loud,explaining it as he went along.”“‘Verbal Fridge Dialogue,’” he read, ‘“is an emergency communication systemthat avails itself of the more esoteric products in a refrigerator. Volunteers will knowsuch a code is being used by the presence of very fr — ‘” He looked up from hisnotebook.”The sentence ends there,“ he said, ”but I assume that ‘very fr’ is thebeginning of ‘very fresh dill.’ If very fresh dill is in the refrigerator, that meansthere’s a message there, too.”“I understand that part,” Violet said, “but what does ‘esoteric’ mean?”“In this case,” Klaus said, “I think it refers to things that aren’t used very much —the things that stay in the refrigerator for a long time.”“Like mustard and jam and things like that,” Violet said. “I understand.”“‘The receiver of the message should find his or her initials, as noted by one of ourpoet volunteers, as follows,’” Klaus continued. “And then there’s a short poem: ”Thedarkest of the jams of three contains within the addressee.”“That’s a couplet,” Quigley said, “like my sister writes.”“I don’t think your sister wrote that particular poem,” Violet said. “This code wasprobably invented before your sister was born.”“That’s what I thought,” Klaus said, “but it made me wonder who taught Isadoraabout couplets. They might have been a volunteer.”“She had a poetry teacher when we were young,” Quigley said, “but I never methim. I always had cartography class.”“And your mapmaking skills,” Violet said, “led us to the headquarters.”“And your inventing skills,” Klaus said, “allowed you to climb up to MountFraught .”“And your researching skills are helping us now,” Violet said. “It’s as if we werebeing trained for all this, and we didn’t even know it.”“I never thought of learning about maps as training,” Quigley said. “I just liked it.”“Well, I haven’t had much training in poetry,” Klaus said, “but the couplet seemsto say that inside the darkest jar of jam is the name of the person who’s supposed toget the message.”Violet looked down at the three jars of jam. “There’s apricot, strawberry, andboysenberry,” she said. “Boysenberry’s the darkest.”Klaus nodded, and unscrewed the cap from the jar of boysenberry jam. “Lookinside,” he said, and shined the flashlight so Violet and Quigley could see. Someonehad taken a knife and written two letters in the surface of the jam: J and S.“J.S.,” Quigley said. “Jacques Snicket.”“The message can’t be for Jacques Snicket ” Violet said. “He’s dead.”“Maybe whoever wrote this message doesn’t know that,” Klaus said, andcontinued to read from the commonplace book. ‘“If necessary, the dialogue uses acured, fruit-based calendar for days of the week in order to announce a gathering.Sunday is represented by a lone — ‘ Here it’s cut off again, but I think that meansthat these olives are an encoded way of communicating which day of the week agathering will take place, with Sunday being one olive, Monday being two, and soon.”“How many olives are in that container?” Quigley asked.“Five,” Klaus said, wrinkling his nose. “I didn’t like counting them. Ever since theSqualors fixed us aqueous martinis, the taste of olives hasn’t really appealed to me.”“Five olives means Thursday,” Violet said.“Today’s Friday,” Quigley said. “The gathering of the volunteers is less than aweek away.The two Baudelaires nodded in agreement, and Klaus opened his notebook again.‘“Any spice-based condiment,’” he read, “‘should have a coded label referringvolunteers to encoded poems.’”“I don’t think I understand,” Quigley said.Klaus sighed, and reached for the jar of mustard. “This is where it really getscomplicated. Mustard is a spice-based condiment, and according to the code, itshould refer us to a poem of some sort.”“How can mustard refer us to a poem?” Violet asked.Klaus smiled. “I was puzzled for a long time,” he said, “but I finally thought tolook at the list of ingredients. Listen to this: ‘Vinegar, mustard seed, salt, tumeric, thefinal quatrain of the eleventh stanza of ”The Garden of Proserpine,“ by AlgernonCharles Swinburne, and calcium disodium, an allegedly natural preservative.’ Aquatrain is four lines of a poem, and a stanza is another word for a verse. They hid areference to a poem in the list of ingredients.”“It’s the perfect place to hide something,” Violet said. “No one ever reads thoselists very carefully. But did you find the poem?”Klaus frowned, and lifted the teacup. “Under a burnt wooden sign marked ‘Poetry,’I found a pile of papers that were burned practically beyond recognition,” he said,“but here’s the one surviving scrap, and it’s the last quatrain of the eleventh stanza of‘The Garden of Proserpine,’ by Algernon Charles Swinburne.”“That’s convenient,” Quigley said.“A little too convenient,” Klaus said. “The entire library was destroyed, and theone poem that survived is the one we need. It can’t be a coincidence.” He held out thescrap of paper so Violet and Quigley could see it. “It’s as if someone knew we’d belooking for this.”“What does the quatrain say?” Violet asked.“It’s not very cheerful,” Klaus said, and tilted the flashlight so he could read it:“That no life lives forever; That dead men rise up never; That even the weariestriver Winds somewhere safe to sea.”The children shivered, and moved so they were sitting even closer together on theground. It had grown darker, and Klaus’s flashlight was pratically the only thing theycould see. If you have ever found yourself sitting in darkness with a flashlight, youmay have experienced the feeling that something is lurking just beyond the circle oflight that a flashlight makes, and reading a poem about dead men is not a good wayto make yourself feel better.“I wish Isadora were here,” Quigley said. “She could tell us what that poemmeans.”“Even the weariest river winds somewhere safe to sea,” Violet repeated. “Do youthink that refers to the last safe place?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “I couldn’t find anything else that would help us.”“What about the lemon juice?” Violet asked. “And the pickle?”Klaus shook his head, although his sister could scarcely see him in the dark.“There might be more to the message,” he said, “but it’s all gone up in smoke. Icouldn’t find anything more in the library that seemed helpful.”Violet took the scrap of paper from her brother and looked at the quatrain.“There’s something very faint here,” she said. “Something written in pencil, but it’stoo faint to read.”Quigley reached into his backpack. “I forgot we have two flashlights,” he said, andshone a second light onto the paper. Sure enough, there was one word, written veryfaintly in pencil beside the last four lines of the poem’s eleventh stanza. Violet,Klaus, and Quigley leaned in as far as they could to see what it was. The night windsrustled the fragile paper, and made the children shiver, shaking the flashlights, but atlast the light shone on the quatrain and they could see what words were there.“Sugar bowl,” they said in unison, and looked at one another.“What could that mean?” Klaus asked.Violet sighed. “When we were hiding underneath the car,” she said to Quigley,“one of those villains said something about searching for a sugar bowl, remember?”Quigley nodded, and took out his purple notebook. “Jacques Snicket mentioned asugar bowl once,” he said, “when we were in Dr. Montgomery’s library. He said itwas very important to find it. I wrote it down on the top of a page in mycommonplace book, so I could add any information I learned about its whereabouts.”He held up the page so the two Baudelaires could see that it was blank. “I neverlearned anything more,” he said.Klaus sighed. “It seems that the more we learn, the more mysteries we find. Wereached V.F.D. headquarters and decoded a message, and all we know is that there’sone last safe place, and volunteers are gathering there on Thursday.”“That might be enough,” Violet said, “if Sunny finds out where the safe place is.”“But how are we going to get Sunny away from Count Olaf?” Klaus asked.“With your fork-assisted climbing shoes,” Quigley said. “We can climb up thereagain, and sneak away with Sunny.”Violet shook her head. “The moment they noticed Sunny was gone,” she said,“they would find us. From Mount Fraught , they can see everything and everyone formiles and miles, and we’re hopelessly outnumbered.”“That’s true,” Quigley admitted. “There are ten villains up there, and only four ofus. Then how are we going to rescue her?”“Olaf has someone we love,” Klaus said thoughtfully. “If we had something heloves, we could trade it for Sunny’s return. What does Count Olaf love?”“Money,” Violet said.“Fire,” Quigley said.“We don’t have any money,” Klaus said, “and Olaf won’t trade Sunny for a fire.There must be something he really loves — something that makes him happy, andwould make him very unhappy if it were taken away.”Violet and Quigley looked at one another and smiled. “Count Olaf loves EsméSqualor,” Violet said. “If we were holding Esmé prisoner, we could arrange a trade.”“That’s true,” Klaus said, “but we’re not holding Esmé prisoner.”“We could take her prisoner,” Quigley said, and everyone was quiet. Takingsomeone prisoner, of course, is a villainous thing to do, and when you think of doinga villainous thing — even if you have a very good reason for thinking of doing it —it can make you feel like a villain, too. Lately, the Baudelaires had been doing thingslike wearing disguises and helping burn down a carnival, and were beginning to feelmore and more like villains themselves. But Violet and Klaus had never doneanything as villainous as taking somebody prisoner, and as they looked at Quigleythey could tell that he felt just as uncomfortable, sitting in the dark and thinking up avillainous plan.“How would we do it?” Klaus asked quietly.“We could lure her to us,” Violet said, “and trap her.”Quigley wrote something down in his commonplace book. “We could use theVerdant Flammable Devices,” he said. “Esmé thinks they’re cigarettes, and she thinkscigarettes are in. If we lit some of them, she might smell the smoke and come downhere.”“But then what?” Klaus asked.Violet shivered in the cold, and reached into her pocket. Her fingers bumped upagainst the large bread knife, which she had almost forgotten was there, and thenfound what she was looking for. She took the ribbon out of her pocket and tied herhair up, to keep it out of her eyes. The eldest Baudelaire could scarcely believe shewas using her inventing skills to think up a trap. “The easiest trap to build,” she said,“is a pit. We could dig a deep hole, and cover it up with some of this half-burnedwood so Esmé couldn’t see it. The wood has been weakened by the fire, so when shesteps on it…”Violet did not finish her sentence, but by the glow of the flashlights, she could seethat Klaus and Quigley were both nodding. “Hunters have used traps like that forcenturies,” Klaus said, “to capture wild animals.”“That doesn’t make me feel any better,” Violet said.“How could we dig such a pit?” Quigley said.“Well,” Violet said, “we don’t really have any tools, so we probably have to useour hands. As the pit got deeper, we’d have to use something to carry the dirt away.”“I still have that pitcher,” Klaus said.“And we’d need a way to make sure that we wouldn’t get trapped ourselves,”Violet said.“I have a rope,” Quigley said, “in my backpack. We could tie one end to thearchway, and use it to climb out.”Violet reached her hand down to the ground The dirt was very cold, but quiteloose, and she saw that they could dig a pit without too much trouble. “Is this theright thing to do?” Violet asked. “Do you think this is what our parents would do?”“Our parents aren’t here,” Klaus said. “They might have been here once, butthey’re not here now.”The children were quiet again, and tried to think as best they could in the cold andthe dark. Deciding on the right thing to do in a situation is a bit like deciding on theright thing to wear to a party. It is easy to decide on what is wrong to wear to a party,such as deep-sea diving equipment or a pair of large pillows, but deciding what isright is much trickier. It might seem right to wear a navy blue suit, for instance, butwhen you arrive there could be several other people wearing the same thing, and youcould end up being handcuffed due to a case of mistaken identity. It might seem rightto wear your favorite pair of shoes, but there could be a sudden flood at the party, andyour shoes would be ruined. And it might seem right to wear a suit of armor to theparty, but there could be several other people wearing the same thing, and you couldend up being caught in a flood due to a case of mistaken identity, and find yourselfdrifting out to sea wishing that you were wearing deep-sea diving equipment after all.The truth is that you can never be sure if you have decided on the right thing until theparty is over, and by then it is too late to go back and change your mind, which iswhy the world is filled with people doing terrible things and wearing ugly clothing,and so few volunteers who are able to stop them.“I don’t know if it’s the right thing to do,” Violet said, “but Count Olaf capturedSunny, and we might have to capture someone ourselves, in order to stop him.”Klaus nodded solemnly. “We’ll fight fire ” he said, “with fire.”“Then we’d better get started,” Quigley said and stood up. “When the sun rises, wecan light the Verdant Flammable Devices with the mirror again, like we did when wewere signaling Sunny.”“If we want the pit to be ready by dawn,” Violet said, “we’ll have to dig all night.”“Where shall we put the pit?” Klaus asked.“In front of the entrance,” Violet decided. “Then we can hide behind the arch whenEsmé approaches.”“How will we know when she’s fallen in,” Quigley asked, “if we can’t see her?”“We’ll hear it,” Violet replied. “We’ll hear the breaking of the wood, and Esmémight scream.”Klaus shuddered. “That’s not going to be a pleasant sound.”“We’re not in a pleasant situation,” Violet said, and the eldest Baudelaire wasright. It was not pleasant to kneel down in front of the ruined library entrance, anddig through the ashes and dirt with their bare hands by the light of two flashlights, asall four drafts of the valley blew around them. It was not pleasant for Violet and herbrother to carry the dirt away in the pitcher, while Quigley tied his rope to the ironarchway, so they could climb in and out as the pit grew bigger and deeper, like anenormous dark mouth opening wider and wider to swallow them whole. It was noteven pleasant to pause and eat a carrot to keep up their energy, or to gaze at the shinywhite shape of the frozen waterfall as it glinted in the moonlight, imagining EsméSqualor, lured by the smoke of the Verdant Flammable Devices, approaching theruined headquarters to become their prisoner. But the least pleasant part of thesituation wasn’t the cold dirt, or the freezing winds, or even their own exhaustion asit grew later and later and the children dug deeper and deeper. The least pleasant partwas the idea, shared by the two Baudelaires and their new friend, that they might bedoing a villainous thing.The siblings were not sure if digging a deep pit to trap someone, in order to tradeprisoners with a villain, was something that their parents or any other volunteerswould do, but with so many of the V.F.D. secrets lost in the ashes, it was impossibleto know for sure, and this uncertainty haunted them with every pitcherful of dirt, andevery climb up the rope, and every piece of weakened wood they laid on top of thepit to hide it from view.As the first rays of the morning sun appeared on the misty horizon, the elderBaudelaires gazed up at the waterfall. At the summit of the Mortmain Mountains ,they knew, was a group of villains, from whom Sunny was hopefully learning thelocation of the last safe place. But as Violet and Klaus lowered their gaze to their ownhandiwork, and looked at the dark, deep pit Quigley had helped them dig, they couldnot help wondering if there were also a group of villains at the bottom of the slipperyslope. As they looked at the villainous thing they had made, the three volunteerscould not help wondering if they were villains, too, and this was the least pleasantfeeling in the world.bank robbers and the prisoners lived together in close proximity, a word which heremeans “while the police gathered outside and eventually managed to arrest the robbers andtake them to jail.” When the prisoners were finally freed, however, the authoritiesdiscovered that they had become friends with the bank robbers, and since that time theexpression “Stockholm Syndrome” has been used to describe a situation in whichsomeone becomes friendly with the people who are holding them prisoner.There is another expression, however, which describes a situation that is far morecommon, when a prisoner does not become friends with such people, but insteadregards them as villains, and despises them more and more with each passingmoment, waiting desperately for an opportunity to escape. The expression is “MountFraught Syndrome,” and Sunny Baudelaire was experiencing it as she stood at the topof Mount Fraught , gazing down at the frozen waterfall and thinking about hercircumstances.The young girl had spent another sleepless night in the covered casserole dish,after washing the salmon out of it with a few handfuls of melted snow. It was chilly,of course, with the winds of the Mortmain Mountains blowing through the holes inthe lid, and it was painful, because once again her teeth were chattering in the coldand giving her tiny cuts on her lips, but there was another reason Sunny did not sleepwell, which is that she was frustrated. Despite her best spying attempts, the youngestBaudelaire had been unable to eavesdrop on the villains’ conversation and learn thelocation of the last safe place where V.F.D. would be gathering, or learn any moreabout the dreadful recruitment scheme planned by the man with a beard but no hairand the woman with hair but no beard. When the troupe gathered around the flat rockfor dinner, they discussed these things, but every time Sunny tried to get closeenough to hear what they were saying, they glared at her and quickly changed thesubject. It seemed to Sunny that the only thing she had accomplished all evening waspreparing a meal that the troupe enjoyed. When she had presented her platter of FalseSpring Rolls, no one had complained, and every single villainous person had takensecond helpings.But something crucial had escaped the attention of Count Olaf and his comradesduring the meal, and for that Sunny was very grateful. As she had told her siblings,the youngest Baudelaire had prepared an assortment of vegetables wrapped inspinach leaves, in honor of False Spring. Her recipe had required the bag ofmushrooms, the can of water chestnuts, and the frozen hunk of spinach, which shehad thawed by holding it underneath her shirt, as she had when preparing toast tartar.But Sunny had decided at the last minute that she would not use the enormouseggplant. When Violet mentioned that the eggplant must weigh as much as Sunnydid, the youngest Baudelaire had an idea, and rather than chopping the eggplant intosmall strips with her teeth, she hid it behind the flat tire of Count Olaf’s car, and now,as the sun rose and the group of villains began their usual morning bickering, she wasretrieving the eggplant and rolling it to the casserole dish. As she rolled it past theautomobile, Sunny looked down at the frozen waterfall, which was looking less andless frozen in the morning sun. She knew her siblings were at the bottom withQuigley, and although she couldn’t see them, it made her feel better knowing theywere relatively nearby and that, if her plan worked out, she would soon be joiningthem.“What are you doing, baby?” Sunny had just slipped the eggplant under the coverof the casserole dish when she heard the voice of one of Olaf’s comrades. The twowhite-faced women were standing just outside their tent and stretching in themorning sun.“Aubergine,” Sunny replied, which meant “I’ve concocted a plan involving thiseggplant, and it doesn’t matter if I tell you about it because you never understand asingle word I say.”“More babytalk,” said the other white-faced woman with a sigh. “I’m beginning tothink that Sunny is only a helpless baby, and not a spy.”“Goo goo ga — ” Sunny began, but the flap of Count Olaf’s tent opened beforeshe could utter the last “ga.” The villain and his girlfriend stood in the morning sun,and it was clear that they expected the new day — Saturday — to be an importantone, because they were dressed for the occasion, a phrase which here means “wearingsuch strange clothing that the youngest Baudelaire was too surprised to say the final‘ga’ she had been planning.” Amazingly, it appeared that Count Olaf had washed hisface, and he was wearing a brand-new suit made out of material that at first seemedto be covered in tiny polka dots. But when Sunny took a closer look, she saw thateach dot was a small eye, matching Olaf’s tattoo and the V.F.D. insignia and all of theother eyes that had plagued the Baudelaires since that terrible day on the beach, sothat looking at Count Olaf in his new suit felt like looking at a crowd of villains, allstaring at Sunny Baudelaire. But no matter how unnerving Olaf’s fashion choice was,Esmé Squalor’s outfit was worse to behold. Sunny could not remember when she hadever seen a dress so enormous, and was surprised that such an article of clothingcould have fit in the tent and still leave room for villains to sleep. The dress wasmade of layers upon layers of shiny cloth, in different shades of yellow, orange, andred, all cut in fierce triangular shapes so that each layer seemed to cut into the next,and rising from the shoulders of the dress were enormous piles of black lace, stickingup into the air in strange curves. For a moment, the dress was so huge and odd thatSunny could not imagine why anyone would wear it, but as the wicked girlfriendstepped farther out of the tent, it became horribly clear. Esmé Squalor was dressed tolook like an enormous fire.“What a wonderful morning!” Count Olaf crowed. “Just think, by the end of theday I’ll have more new members of my troupe than ever before!”“And we’ll need them,” Esmé agreed “We’re all going to have to work together forthe greater good — burning down the last safe place!”“Just the idea of the Hotel Denouement in flames makes me so excited, I’m goingto open a bottle of wine!” Count Olaf announced, and Sunny covered her mouth withher hands so the villains would not hear her gasp. The Hotel Denouement, sherealized, must be the last safe place for volunteers to gather, and Olaf was so excitedthat he had uttered the name inadvertently, a word which here means “where theyoungest Baudelaire could hear it.”“The idea of all those eagles filling the sky makes me so excited, I’m going tosmoke one of those in green cigarettes!” Esmé announced, and then frowned.“Except I don’t have one. Drat.”“Beg your pardon, your Esméship,” said one of the white-faced women, “but Isee some of that green smoke down at the bottom of the waterfall.”“Really?” Esmé asked eagerly, and looked in the direction Olaf’s employee waspointing. Sunny looked, too, and saw a familiar plume of green smoke at the verybottom of the slope, getting bigger and bigger as the sun continued to rise. Theyoungest Baudelaire wondered why her siblings were signaling her, and what theywere trying to say.“That’s strange,” Olaf said. “You’d think there’d be nothing left of theheadquarters to burn.”“Look how much smoke there is,” Esmé said greedily. “There must be a wholepack of cigarettes down there. This day is getting even better!”Count Olaf smiled, and then looked away from the waterfall and noticed Sunny forthe first time. “I’ll have the baby go down and get them for you,” Count Olaf said.“Yessir!” Sunny said eagerly.“The baby would probably steal all the cigarettes for herself,” Esmé said, glaringat the young girl. “I’ll go.”“But climbing down there will take hours ” Olaf said. “Don’t you want to be herefor the recruitment scheme? I just love springing traps on people.”“Me, too,” Esmé agreed, “but don’t worry, Olaf. I’ll be back in moments. I’m notgoing to climb. I’ll take one of the toboggans and sled down the waterfall beforeanyone else even notices I’m gone.”“Drat!” Sunny couldn’t help saying. She meant something along the lines of, “Thatis exactly what I was planning on doing,” but once again no one understood.“Shut up, toothy,” Esmé said, “and get out of my way.” She flounced past theyoungest Baudelaire, and Sunny realized that there was something sewn to thebottom of the dress that made it make a crackling noise as she walked, so that thewicked girlfriend sounded as much like a fire as she looked like one. Blowing a kissto Count Olaf, she grabbed the toboggan belonging to the sinister villains.“I’ll be right back, darling,” Esmé said. “Tell that baby to take a nap so she won’tsee what we’re up to.”“Esmé‘s right,” Olaf said, giving Sunny a cruel smile. “Get in the casserole dish.You’re such an ugly, helpless creature, I can scarcely stand to look at you.”“You said it, handsome,” Esmé said, and chuckled meanly as she sat at the top ofthe waterfall. The two white-faced women scurried to help, and gave the toboggan abig push as Sunny did as she was told, and disappeared from Olaf’s sight.As you may imagine, the sight of a grown woman in an enormous flame-imitatingdress tobogganing down from the source of the Stricken Stream to the two tributariesand the half-frozen pool at the bottom of the waterfall is not the sort of thing to passunnoticed, even from far away. Violet was the first to see the colorful blur headingquickly down the slope, and she lowered Colette’s hand mirror, which she had usedonce again to catch the rays of the rising sun and reflect them onto the VerdantFlammable Devices, which she had put in a pile in front of the pit. Wrinkling hernose from the bitter smell of the smoke, she turned to Klaus and Quigley, who wereputting one last piece of weakened wood across the pit, so their trap would be hiddenfrom view.“Look,” Violet said, and pointed to the descending shape.“Do you think it’s Esmé?” Klaus asked.Violet squinted up at the tobogganing figure. “I think so,” she said. “Nobody butEsmé Squalor would wear an outfit like that.”“We’d better hide behind the archway,” Quigley said, “before she spots us.”The two Baudelaires nodded in agreement, and walked carefully to the libraryentrance, making sure to step around the hole they had dug.“I’m happy that we can’t see the pit anymore,” Klaus said. “Looking into thatblackness reminded me of that terrible passageway at 667 Dark Avenue .”“First Esmé trapped your siblings there,” Violet said to Quigley, “and then shetrapped us.”“And now we’re fighting fire with fire, and trapping her,” Quigley saiduncomfortably.“It’s best not to think about it,” Violet said, although she had not stopped thinkingabout the trap since the first handful of ashes and earth. “Soon we’ll have Sunnyback, and that’s what’s important.”“Maybe this is important, too,” Klaus said, and pointed up at the archway. “I nevernoticed it until now.”Violet and Quigley looked up to see what he was referring to, and saw four tinywords etched over their heads, right underneath the large letters spelling “V.F.D.Library.”“‘The world is quiet here,’” Quigley read. “What do you think it means?”“It looks like a motto,” Klaus said. “At Prufrock Preparatory School , they had amotto carved near the entrance, so everyone would remember it when they enteredthe academy.”Violet shook her head. “That’s not what I’m thinking of,” she said. “I’mremembering something about that phrase, but just barely.”“The world certainly feels quiet around here,” Klaus said. “We haven’t heard asingle snow gnat since we arrived.”“The smell of smoke scares them away, remember?” Quigley asked.“Of course,” Klaus said, and peered around the archway to check on Esmé‘sprogress. The colorful blur was about halfway down the waterfall, heading straightfor the trap they had built. “There’s been so much smoke here at headquarters, thegnats might never come back.”“Without snow gnats,” Quigley said, “the salmon of the Stricken Stream will gohungry. They feed on snow gnats.” He reached into his pocket and opened hiscommonplace book.A Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery Slope“And without salmon,” he said, “the Mortmain Mountain eagles will go hungry.The destruction of V.F.D, headquarters has caused even more damage than Ithought.” Klaus nodded in agreement. “When we were walking along the StrickenStream,” he said, “the fish were coughing from all the ashes in the water. Remember,Violet?”He turned to his sister, but Violet was only half listening. She was still gazing atthe words on the archway, and trying to remember where she heard them before. “Ican just hear those words,” she said. “The world is quiet here. ” She closed her eyes.“I think it was a very long time ago, before you were born, Klaus.”“Maybe someone said them to you,” Quigley said.Violet tried to remember as far back as she could, but everything seemed as mistyas it did in the mountains. She could see the face of her mother, and her fatherstanding behind her, wearing a suit as black as the ashes of V.F.D. headquarters. Theirmouths were open, but Violet could not remember what they were saying. No matterhow hard she tried, the memory was as silent as the grave. “Nobody said them tome,” she said finally. “Someone sang them. I think my parents sang the words ‘theworld is quiet here’ a long time ago, but I don’t know why.” She opened her eyes andfaced her brother and her friend. “I think we might be doing the wrong thing,” shesaid.“But we agreed,” Quigley said, “to fight fire with fire.”Violet nodded, and stuck her hands in her pocket, bumping up against the breadknife again. She thought of the darkness of the pit, and the scream Esmé would makeas she fell into it. “I know we agreed,” Violet said, “but if V.F.D. really stands forVolunteer Fire Department, then they’re an organization that stops fire. If everyonefought fire with fire, the entire world would go up in smoke.”“I see what you mean,” Quigley said. “If the V.F.D. motto is ‘The world is quiethere,’ we ought to be doing something less noisy and violent than trapping someone,no matter how wicked they are.”“When I was looking into the pit,” Klaus said quietly, “I was rememberingsomething I read in a book by a famous philosopher. He said, ‘Whoever fightsmonsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And whenyou look long into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you.’” Klaus looked at hissister, and then at the sight of Esmé approaching, and then at the weakened wood thatthe three children had placed on the ground. “‘Abyss’ is a fancy word for ‘pit,’” hesaid. “We built an abyss for Esmé to fall into. That’s something a monster might do.”Quigley was copying Klaus’s words into his commonplace book. “What happenedto that philosopher?” he asked.“He’s dead,” Klaus replied. “I think you’re right, Violet. We don’t want to be asvillainous and monstrous as Count Olaf.”“But what are we going to do?” Quigley asked. “Sunny is still Olaf’s prisoner, andEsmé will be here at any moment. If we don’t think of the right thing right now, it’llbe too late.”As soon as the triplet finished his sentence however, the three children heardsomething that made them realize it might already be too late. From behind thearchway, Violet, Klaus, and Quigley heard a rough, scraping sound as the tobogganreached the bottom of the waterfall and slid to a halt, and then a triumphant gigglefrom the mouth of Esmé Squalor. The three volunteers peeked around the archwayand saw the treacherous girlfriend step off the toboggan with a greedy smile on herface. But when Esmé adjusted her enormous flame-imitating dress and took a steptoward the smoking Verdant Flammable Devices, Violet was not looking at her anymore. Violet was looking down at the ground, just a few steps from where she wasstanding. Three dark, round masks were sitting in a pile, where Violet, Klaus, andQuigley had left them upon arriving at the ruins of headquarters. They had assumedthat they would not need them again, but the eldest Baudelaire realized they had beenwrong. As Esmé took another step closer to the trap, Violet dashed over to the masks,put one on and stepped out of her hiding place as her brother and her friend lookedon.“Stop, Esmé!” she cried. “It’s a trap!”Esmé stopped in her tracks and gave Violet a curious look. “Who are you?” sheasked. “You shouldn’t sneak up on people like that. It’s a villainous thing to do.”“I’m a volunteer,” Violet said.Esmé‘s mouth, heavy with orange lipstick that matched her dress, curled into asneer. “There are no volunteers here,” she said. “The entire headquarters aredestroyed!”Klaus was the next to grab a mask and confront Olaf’s treacherous romanticcompanion. “Our headquarters might be destroyed,” he said, “but the V.F.D. is asstrong as ever!”Esmé frowned at the two siblings as if she couldn’t decide whether to befrightened or not “You may be strong,” she said nervously, “but you’re also veryshort.” Her dress crackled as she started to take another step toward the pit. “When Iget my hands on you — ”“No!” Quigley cried, and stepped out from the arch wearing his mask, taking carenot to fall into his own trap. “Don’t come any closer, Esmé. If you take another step,you’ll fall into our trap.”“You’re making that up,” Esmé said, but she did not move any closer. “You’retrying to keep all the cigarettes for yourself.”“They’re not cigarettes,” Klaus said, “and we’re not liars. Underneath the woodyou’re about to step on is a very deep pit.”Esmé looked at them suspiciously. Gingerly — a word which here means “withoutfalling into a very deep hole” — she leaned down and moved a piece of wood aside,and stared down into the trap the children had built. “Well, well, well,” she said.“You did build a trap. I never would have fallen for it, of course, but I must admityou dug quite a pit.”“We wanted to trap you,” Violet said, “so we could trade you for the safe return ofSunny Baudelaire. But — ”“But you didn’t have the courage to go through with it,” Esmé said with a mockingsmile. “You volunteers are never brave enough to do something for the greater good.”“Throwing people into pits isn’t the greater good!” Quigley cried. “It’s villainoustreachery!”“If you weren’t such an idiot,” Esmé said, “you’d realize that those things aremore or less the same.”“He is not an idiot,” Violet said fiercely. She knew, of course, that it was notworthwhile to get upset over insults from such a ridiculous person, but she likedQuigley too much to hear him called names. “He led us here to the headquartersusing a map he drew himself.”“He’s very well-read,” Klaus said.At Klaus’s words, Esmé threw back her head and laughed, shaking the cracklinglayers of her enormous dress. “Well-read!” she repeated in a particularly nasty tone ofvoice. “Being well-read won’t help you in this world. Many years ago, I wassupposed to waste my entire summer reading Anna Karenina, but I knew that sillybook would never help me, so I threw it into the fireplace.” She reached down andpicked up a few more pieces of wood, which she tossed aside with a snicker. “Lookat your precious headquarters, volunteers! It’s as ruined as my book. And look at me!I’m beautiful, fashionable, and I smoke cigarettes!” She laughed again, and pointed atthe children with a scornful finger. “If you didn’t spend all your time with your headsstuck in books, you’d have that precious baby back.”“We’re going to get her back,” Violet said firmly.“Really?” Esmé said mockingly. “And how do you propose to do that?”“I’m going to talk to Count Olaf,” Violet said, “and he’s going to give her back tome.”Esmé threw back her head and started to laugh, but not with as much enthusiasmas before. “What do you mean?” she said.“Just what I said,” Violet said.“Hmmm,” Esmé said suspiciously. “Let me think for a moment.” The evilgirlfriend began to pace back and forth on the frozen pond, her enormous dresscrackling with every step.Klaus leaned in to whisper to his sister. “What are you doing?” he asked. “Do youhonestly think that we can get Sunny back from Count Olaf with a simpleconversation?”“I don’t know,” Violet whispered back, “but it’s better than luring someone into atrap.”“It was wrong to dig that pit,” Quigley agreed, “but I’m not sure that walkingstraight into Olaf’s clutches is the right thing to do, either.”“It’ll take a while to reach Mount Fraught again,” Violet said. “We’ll think ofsomething during the climb.”“I hope so,” Klaus said, “but if we can’t think of something — ”Klaus did not get a chance to say what might happen if they couldn’t think ofsomething because Esmé clapped her hands together to get the children’s attention.“If you really want to talk to my boyfriend,” she said, “I suppose I can take you towhere he is. If you weren’t so stupid, you’d know that he’s very nearby.”“We know where he is, Esmé,” Klaus said. “He’s at the top of the waterfall, at thesource of the Stricken Stream.”“Then I suppose you know how we can get there,” Esmé said, and looked a littlefoolish. “The toboggan doesn’t go uphill, so I actually have no idea how we canreach the peak.”“She will invent a way,” Quigley said, pointing at Violet.Violet smiled at her friend, grateful for his support, and closed her eyes underneathher mask. Once more, she was thinking of something she had heard sung to her, whenshe was a very little girl. She had already thought of the way that the three childrencould take Esmé with them when they ascended the hill, but thinking of their journeymade her think of a song she had not thought of for many years. Perhaps when youwere very young, someone sang this song to you, perhaps to lull you to sleep, or toentertain you on a long car trip, or in order to teach you a secret code. The song iscalled “The Itsy Bitsy Spider,” and it is one of the saddest songs ever composed. Ittells the story of a small spider who is trying to climb up a water spout, but everytime its climb is half over, there is a great burst of water, either due to rain orsomebody turning the spout on, and at the end of the song, the spider has decided totry one more time, and will likely be washed away once again.Violet Baudelaire could not help feeling like this poor spider as she ascended thewaterfall for the last time, with Quigley and Klaus beside her and Esmé Squalor onher toboggan behind them. After attaching the last two forks to Klaus’s shoes, shehad told her companions to tie the leather straps of the toboggan around their waists,so they could drag the villainous girlfriend behind them as they climbed. It wasexhausting to approach the peak of Mount Fraught in this manner, particularly afterstaying up all night digging a pit, and it seemed like they might get washed backdown by the dripping water of the Stricken Stream, like the spider Violet had heardabout when she was a little girl. The ice on the slope was weakening, after two forkassisted climbs, a toboggan ride, and the increasing temperatures of False Spring, andwith each step of Violet’s invention, the ice would shift slightly. It was clear that theslippery slope was almost as exhausted as they were, and soon the ice would vanishcompletely. “Mush!” Esmé called from the toboggan. She was using an expressionthat arctic explorers shouted to their sled dogs, and it certainly did not make thejourney any easier.“I wish she’d stop saying that,” Violet murmured from behind her mask. Shetapped the candelabra on the ice ahead of her, and a small piece detached from thewaterfall and fell to the ruins of headquarters. She watched it disappear below herand sighed. She would never see the V.F.D. headquarters in all its glory. None of theBaudelaires would. Violet would never know how it felt to cook in the kitchen andgaze at the two tributaries of the Stricken Stream, while chatting with the othervolunteers. Klaus would never know how it felt to relax in the library and learn all ofthe secrets of V.F.D. in the comfort of one of the library’s chairs, with his feet up onone of the matching V.F.D. footstools. Sunny would never operate the projector in themovie room, or practice the art of the fake mustache in the disguise center, or sit inthe parlor at tea time and eat the almond cookies made from my grandmother’srecipe. Violet would never study chemical composition in one of the six laboratories,and Klaus would never use the balance beams at the gymnasium, and Sunny wouldnever stand behind the counter at the ice cream shop and prepare butterscotchsundaes for the swimming coaches when it was her turn. And none of the Baudelaireswould ever meet some of the organization’s most beloved volunteers, including themechanical instructor C. M. Kornbluth, and Dr. Isaac Anwhistle, whom everyonecalled Ike, and the brave volunteer who tossed the sugar bowl out the kitchen windowso it would not be destroyed in the blaze, and watched it float away on one of thetributaries of the Stricken Stream. The Baudelaires would never do any of thesethings, any more than I will ever see my beloved Beatrice again, or retrieve my picklefrom the refrigerator in which I left it, and return it to its rightful place in animportant coded sandwich. Violet, of course, was not aware of everything she wouldnever do, but as she gazed down at the vast, ashen remains of the headquarters, shefelt as if her whole journey in the Mortmain Mountains had been as useless as thejourney of a tiny arachnid in a song she had never liked to hear.“Mush!” Esmé cried again, with a cruel chuckle.“Please stop saying that, Esmé,” Violet called down impatiently. “That mushnonsense is slowing our climb.”“A slow climb might be to our advantage,” Klaus murmured to his sister. “Thelonger it takes us to reach the summit, the longer we have to think up what we’regoing to say to Count Olaf.”“We could tell him that he’s surrounded,” Quigley said, “and that there arevolunteers everywhere ready to arrest him if he doesn’t let Sunny go free.”Violet shook her mask. “He won’t believe that,” she said, sticking a fork-assistedshoe into the waterfall. “He can see everything and everyone from Mount Fraught .He’ll know we’re the only volunteers in the area.”“There must be something we can do,” Klaus said. “We didn’t make this journeyinto the mountains for nothing.”“Of course not,” Quigley said. “We found each other, and we solved some of themysteries that were haunting us.”“Will that be enough,” Violet asked, “to defeat all those villains on the peak?”Violet’s question was a difficult one, and neither Klaus nor Quigley had theanswer, and so rather than hazard a guess — a phrase which here means “continue toexpend their energy by discussing the matter” — they decided to hazard their climb,a phrase which here means “continue their difficult journey in silence, until theyarrived at last at the source of the Stricken Stream.” Hoisting themselves up onto theflat peak, they sat on the edge and pulled the leather straps as hard as they could. Itwas such a difficult task to drag Esmé Squalor and the toboggan over the edge of theslope and onto Mount Fraught that the children did not notice who was nearby untilthey heard a familiar scratchy voice right behind them.“Who goes there?” Count Olaf demanded.Breathless from the climb, the three children turned around to see the villainstanding with his two sinister cohorts near his long, black automobile, glaringsuspiciously at the masked volunteers.“We thought you’d get here by taking the path,” said the man with a beard but nohair, “not by climbing up the waterfall.”“No, no, no,” Esmé said quickly. “These aren’t the people we’re expecting. Theseare some volunteers I found at headquarters.”“Volunteers?” said the woman with hair but no beard, but her voice did not soundas deep as it usually did. The villains gave the children the same confused frown theyhad seen from Esmé, as if they were unsure whether to be scared or scornful, and thehookhanded man, the two white-faced women, and the three former carnivalemployees gathered around to see what had made their villainous boss fall silent.Although they were exhausted, the two Baudelaires hurriedly untied the straps of thetoboggan from their waists and stood with Quigley to face their enemies. Theorphans were very scared, of course, but they found that with their faces concealedthey could speak their minds, a phrase which here means “confront Count Olaf andhis companions as if they weren’t one bit frightened.”“We built a trap to capture your girlfriend, Olaf,” Violet said, “but we didn’t wantto become a monster like you.”“They’re idiotic liars!” Esmé cried. “I found them hogging the cigarettes, so Icaptured them myself and made them drag me up the waterfall like sled dogs.”The middle Baudelaire ignored the wicked girlfriend’s nonsense. “We’re here forSunny Baudelaire,” Klaus said, “and we’re not leaving without her.”Count Olaf frowned, and peered at them with his shiny, shiny eyes as if he weretrying to see through their masks. “And what makes you so certain,” he said, “that I’llgive you my prisoner just because you say so?”Violet thought furiously, looking around at her surroundings for anything thatmight give her an idea of what to do. Count Olaf clearly believed that the threemasked people in front of him were members of V.F.D., and she felt that if she couldjust find the right words to say, she could defeat him without becoming as villainousas her enemies. But she could not find the words, and neither could her brother norher friend, who stood beside her in silence. The winds of the Mortmain Mountainsblew against them, and Violet stuck her hands in her pockets, bumping one fingeragainst the long bread knife. She began to think that perhaps trapping Esmé had beenthe right thing to do after all. Count Olaf’s frown began to fade, and his mouth startedto curl upward in a triumphant smile, but just as he opened his mouth to speak, Violetsaw two things that gave her hope once more. The first was the sight of twonotebooks, one a deep shade of purple and the other dark blue, sticking out of thepockets of her companions — commonplace books, where Klaus and Quigley hadwritten down all of the information they had found in the ruined library of V.F.D.headquarters. And the other was a collection of dishes spread out on the flat rock thatOlaf’s troupe had been using for a table. Sunny had been forced to wash these dishes,using handfuls of melted snow, and she had laid them out to dry in the sunshine ofFalse Spring. Violet could see a stack of plates, each emblazoned with the familiarimage of an eye, as well as a row of teacups and a small pitcher for cream. But therewas something missing from the tea set, and it made Violet smile behind her mask asshe turned to face Count Olaf again.“You will give us Sunny,” she said, “because we know where the sugar bowl is.”Count Olaf gasped, and raised his one eyebrow very high as he gazed at the twoBaudelaires and their companion, his eyes shinier than they had ever seen them.“Where is it?” he said, in a terrible, wheezing whisper. “Give it to me!”Violet shook her head, grateful that her face was still hidden behind a mask. “Notuntil you give us Sunny Baudelaire,” she said.“Never!” the villain replied. “Without that big-toothed brat, I’ll never capture theBaudelaire fortune. You give me the sugar bowl this instant, or I’ll throw all of youoff this mountain!”“If you throw us off the mountain,” Klaus said, “you’ll never know where thesugar bowl is.” He did not add, of course, that the Baudelaires had no idea where thesugar bowl was, or why in the world it was so important.Esmé Squalor took a sinister step toward her boyfriend, her flame-imitating dresscrackling against the cold ground. “We must have that sugar bowl,” she snarled. “Letthe baby go. We’ll cook up another scheme to steal the fortune.”“But stealing the fortune is the greater good,” Count Olaf said. “We can’t let thebaby go.”“Getting the sugar bowl is the greater good,” Esmé said, with a frown.“Stealing the fortune,” Olaf insisted.“Getting the sugar bowl,” Esmé replied.“Fortune!”“Sugar bowl!”“Fortune!”“Sugar bowl!”“That’s enough!” ordered the man with a beard but no hair. “Our recruitmentscheme is about to be put into action. We can’t have you arguing all day long.”“We wouldn’t have argued all day long,” Count Olaf said timidly. “After a fewhours —”“We said that’s enough!” ordered the woman with hair but no beard. “Bring thebaby over here!”“Bring the baby at once!” Count Olaf ordered the two white-faced women. “She’snapping in her casserole dish.”The two white-faced women sighed, but hurried over to the casserole dish andlifted it together, as if they were cooks removing something from the oven instead ofvillainous employees bringing over a prisoner, while the two sinister visitors reacheddown the necks of their shirts and retrieved something that was hanging around theirnecks. Violet and Klaus were surprised to see two shiny silver whistles, like the oneCount Olaf had used as part of his disguise at Prufrock Preparatory School , when hewas pretending to be a coach.“Watch this, volunteers,” said the sinister man in his hoarse voice, and the twomysterious villains blew their whistles. Instantly, the children heard an enormousrustling sound over their heads, as if the Mortmain Mountain winds were asfrightened as the youngsters, and it suddenly grew very dim, as if the morning sunhad also put on a mask. But when they looked up, Violet, Klaus, and Quigley sawthat the reason for the noisy sky and the fading light was perhaps more strange thanfrightened winds and a masked sun. The sky above Mount Fraught was swarmingwith eagles. There were hundreds and hundreds of them, flying in silent circles highabove the two sinister villains. They must have been nesting nearby to have arrivedso quickly, and they must have been very thoroughly trained to be so eerily silent.Some of them looked very old, old enough to have been in the skies when theBaudelaire parents were children themselves. Some of them looked quite young, as ifthey had only recently emerged from the egg and were already obeying the shrillsound of a whistle. But all of them looked exhausted, as if they would rather beanywhere else but the summit of the Mortmain Mountains , doing absolutelyanything rather than following the orders of such wretched people.“Look at these creatures!” cried the woman with hair but no beard. “When theschism occurred, you may have won the carrier crows, volunteers, and you may havewon the trained reptiles.”“Not anymore,” Count Olaf said. “All of the reptiles except one — ”“Don’t interrupt,” the sinister woman interrupted. “You may have the carriercrows, but we have the two most powerful mammals in the world to do our bidding— the lions and eagles!”“Eagles aren’t mammals” Klaus cried out in frustration. “They’re birds!”“They’re slaves,” said the man with a beard but no hair, and the two villainsreached into the pockets of their suits and drew out two long, wicked-looking whips.Violet and Klaus could see at once that they were similar to the whip Olaf had usedwhen bossing around the lions at Caligari Carnival. With matching, sinister sneers thetwo mysterious villains cracked their whips in the air, and four eagles swooped downfrom the sky, landing on the strange thick pads that the villains had on theirshoulders.“These beasts will do anything we tell them to do,” the woman said. “And todaythey’re going to help us with our greatest triumph.” She uncurled the whip andgestured to the ground around her, and the children noticed for the first time anenormous net on the ground, spread out over almost the entire peak and just stoppingat their fork-assisted climbing shoes. “On my signal, these eagles will lift this netfrom the ground and carry it into the sky, capturing a group of young people whothink they’re here to celebrate False Spring.”“The Snow Scouts,” Violet said in astonishment.“We’ll capture every one of those uniformed brats,” the villainous man bragged,“and each one of them will be offered the exciting opportunity to join us.”“They’ll never join you,” Klaus said.“Of course they will,” said the sinister woman, in her deep, deep voice. “They’lleither be recruited, or they’ll be our prisoners. But one thing is for certain — we’llburn down every single one of their parents’ homes.”The two Baudelaires shuddered, and even Count Olaf looked a bit uneasy. “Ofcourse,” he said quickly, “the main reason we’re doing all this is to get our hands onall those fortunes.”“Of course,” Esmé said with a nervous snicker. “We’ll have the Spats fortune, theKornbluth fortune, the Winnipeg fortune, and many others. I’ll be able to afford thepenthouse apartment of every single building that isn’t on fire!”“Once you tell us where the sugar bowl is,” said the man with a beard but no hair,“you can leave, volunteers, and take your baby friend with you. But wouldn’t yourather join us?”“No, thank you,” Quigley said. “We’re not interested.”“It doesn’t matter if you’re interested or not,” said the woman with hair but nobeard. “Look around you. You’re hopelessly outnumbered. Wherever we go, we findnew comrades who are eager to assist us in our work.”“We have comrades, too,” Violet said bravely. “As soon as we rescue Sunny, we’regoing to meet up with the other volunteers at the last safe place, and tell them aboutyour terrible scheme!”“It’s too late for that, volunteers,” said Count Olaf in triumph. “Here come my newrecruits!”With a horrible laugh, the villain pointed in the direction of the rocky path, and theelder Baudelaires could see, past the covered casserole dish still held by the whitefaced women, the arrival of the uniformed Snow Scouts, walking in two neat lines,more like eggs in a carton than young people on a hike. Apparently, the scouts hadrealized that the snow gnats were absent from this part of the Mortmain Mountainsand had removed their masks, so Violet and Klaus could instantly spot CarmelitaSpats, standing at the front of one of the lines with a tiara on her head — “tiara” is aword which here means “small crown given to a nasty little girl for no good reason”— and a large smirk on her face. Beside her, at the head of the other line, stoodBruce, holding the Springpole in one hand and a big cigar in the other. There wassomething about his face that Violet and Klaus found familiar, but they were tooconcerned about the villainous recruitment plan to give it much thought.“What are all you cakesniffers doing here?” demanded Carmelita, in an obnoxiousvoice the two siblings found equally familiar. “I’m the False Spring Queen, and Iorder you to go away!”“Now, now, Carmelita,” Bruce said. “I’m sure these people are here to helpcelebrate your special day. Let’s try to be accommodating. In fact we should try to beaccommodating, basic, calm, darling — ”The scouts had begun to say the ridiculous pledge along with Bruce, but the twoBaudelaires knew they could not wait for the entire alphabetical list to be recited.“Bruce,” Violet interrupted quickly, “these people are not here to help youcelebrate False Spring. They’re here to kidnap all of the Snow Scouts.”“What?” Bruce asked with a smile, as if the eldest Baudelaire might have beenjoking.“It’s a trap,” Klaus said. “Please, turn around and lead the scouts away from here.”“Pay no attention to these three masked idiots,” Count Olaf said quickly. “Themountain air has gone to their heads. Just take a few steps closer and we’ll all join ina special celebration.”“We’re happy to accommodate,” Bruce said. “After all, we’re accommodating,basic —”“No!” Violet cried. “Don’t you see the net on the ground? Don’t you see the eaglesin the sky?”“The net is decoration,” Esmé said, with a smile as false as the Spring, “and theeagles are wildlife.”“Please listen to us!” Klaus said. “You’re in terrible danger!”Carmelita glared at the two Baudelaires, and adjusted her tiara. “Why should Ilisten to cakesniffing strangers like you?” she asked. “You’re so stupid that you’vestill got your masks on, even though there aren’t any snow gnats around here.”Violet and Klaus looked at one another through their masks. Carmelita’s responsehad been quite rude, but the two siblings had to admit she had a point. TheBaudelaires were unlikely to convince anyone that they were telling the truth whiletheir faces were unnecessarily covered. They did not want to sacrifice their disguisesand reveal their true identities to Count Olaf and his troupe, but they couldn’t risk thekidnapping of all the Snow Scouts, even to save their sister. The two Baudelairesnodded at one another, and then turned to see that Quigley was nodding, too, and thethree children reached up and took off their masks for the greater good.Count Olaf’s mouth dropped open in surprise. “You’re dead!” he said to the eldestBaudelaire, saying something that he knew full well was ridiculous. “You perished inthe caravan, along with Klaus!”Esmé stared at Klaus, looking just as astonished as her boyfriend. “You’re dead,too!” she cried. “You fell off a mountain!”“And you’re one of those twins!” Olaf said to Quigley. “You died a long timeago!”“I’m not a twin,” Quigley said, “and I’m not dead.”“And,” Count Olaf said with a sneer, “you’re not a volunteer. None of you aremembers of V.F.D. You’re just a bunch of orphan brats.”“In that case,” said the woman with hair but no beard, in her deep, deep voice,“there’s no reason to worry about that stupid baby any longer.”“That’s true,” Olaf said, and turned to the white-faced women. “Throw the babyoff the mountain!” he ordered.Violet and Klaus cried out in horror, but the two white-faced women merelylooked at the covered casserole dish they were holding, and then at one another.Then, slowly, they looked at Count Olaf, but neither of them moved an inch.“Didn’t you hear me?” Olaf asked. “Throw that baby off this mountain!”“No,” said one of the white-faced women, and the two Baudelaires turned to themin relief.“No?” asked Esmé Squalor in an astonished voice. “What do you mean, no?”“We mean no,” said the white-faced woman, and her companion nodded. Togetherthey put the covered casserole dish down on the ground in front of them. Violet andKlaus were surprised to see that the dish did not move, and assumed that their sistermust have been too scared to come out.“We don’t want to participate in your schemes anymore,” said the other whitefaced woman, and sighed. “For a while, it was fun to fight fire with fire, but we’veseen enough flames and smoke to last our whole lives.”“We don’t think that it was a coincidence that our home burned to the ground,”said the first woman. “We lost a sibling in that fire, Olaf.”Count Olaf pointed at the two women with a long, bony finger. “Obey my ordersthis instant!” he screamed, but his two former accomplices merely shook their heads,turned away from the villain, and began to walk away. Everyone on the square peakwatched in silence as the two white-faced women walked past Count Olaf, past EsméSqualor, past the two sinister villains with eagles on their shoulders, past the twoBaudelaires and Quigley Quagmire, past the hook-handed man and the formeremployees of the carnival, and finally past Bruce and Carmelita Spats and the rest ofthe Snow Scouts, until they reached the rocky path and began to walk away fromMount Fraught altogether. Count Olaf opened his mouth and let out a terrible roar,and jumped up and down on the net.“You can’t walk away from me, you pasty-faced women!” he cried. “I’ll find youand destroy you myself! In fact, I can do anything myself! I’m an individualpractitioner, and I don’t need anybody’s help to throw this baby off the mountain!”With a nasty chuckle, he picked up the covered casserole dish, staggering slightly,and walked to the edge of the half-frozen waterfall.“No!” Violet cried.“Sunny!” Klaus screamed.“Say good-bye to your baby sister, Baudelaires!” Count Olaf said, with atriumphant smile that showed all of his filthy teeth.“I’m not a baby!” cried a familiar voice from under the villain’s long, blackautomobile, and the two elder Baudelaires watched with pride and relief as Sunnyemerged from behind the tire Violet had punctured, and ran to hug her siblings. Klaushad to take his glasses off to wipe the tears from his eyes as he was finally reunitedwith the young girl who was his sister. “I’m not a baby!” Sunny said again, turning toOlaf in triumph.“How could this be?” Count Olaf said, but when he removed the cover from thecasserole dish, he saw how this could be, because the object inside, which was aboutthe same size and weight as the youngest Baudelaire, wasn’t a baby either.“Babganoush!” Sunny cried, which meant something along the lines of, “Iconcocted an escape plan with the eggplant that turned out to be even handier than Ithought,” but there was no need for anyone to translate, as the large vegetable slid outof the casserole dish and landed with a plop! at Olaf’s feet.“Nothing is going right for me today!” cried the villain. “I’m beginning to thinkthat washing my face was a complete waste of time!”“Don’t upset yourself, boss,” said Colette, contorting herself in concern. “I’m surethat Sunny will cook us something delicious with the eggplant.”“That’s true,” the hook-handed man said. “She’s becoming quite a cook. The FalseSpring Rolls were quite tasty, and the lox was delicious.”“It could have used a little dill, in my opinion,” Hugo said, but the three reunitedBaudelaires turned away from this ridiculous conversation to face the Snow Scouts.“Now do you believe us?” Violet asked Bruce. “Can’t you see that this man is aterrible villain who is trying to do you harm?”“Don’t you remember us?” Klaus asked Carmelita Spats. “Count Olaf had aterrible scheme at Prufrock Prep, and he has a terrible scheme now!”“Of course I remember you,” Carmelita said. “You’re those cakesniffing orphanswho caused Vice Principal Nero all that trouble. And now you’re trying to ruin myvery special day! Give me that Springpole, Uncle Bruce!”“Now, now, Carmelita,” Bruce said, but Carmelita had already grabbed the longpole from Bruce’s hands and was marching across the net toward the source of theStricken Stream. The man with a beard but no hair and the woman with hair but nobeard clasped their wicked whips and raised their shiny whistles to their sinistermouths, but the Baudelaires could see they were waiting to spring their trap until therest of the scouts stepped forward, so they would be inside the net when the eagleslifted it from the ground.“I crown myself False Spring Queen!” Carmelita announced, when she reached thevery edge of Mount Fraught . With a nasty laugh of triumph, she elbowed theBaudelaires aside and drove the Springpole into the half-frozen top of the waterfall.There was a slow, loud shattering sound, and the Baudelaires looked down the slopeand saw that an enormous crack was slowly making its way down the center of thewaterfall, toward the pool and the two tributaries of the Stricken Stream. TheBaudelaires gasped in horror. Although it was only the ice that was cracking, itlooked as if the mountain were beginning to split in half, and that soon an enormousschism would divide the entire world.“What are you looking at?” Carmelita asked scornfully. “Everybody’s supposed tobe doing a dance in my honor.”“That’s right,” Count Olaf said, “why doesn’t everybody step forward and do adance in honor of this darling little girl?”“Sounds good to me,” Kevin said, leading his fellow employees onto the net.“After all, I have two equally strong feet.”“And we should try to be accommodating,” the hook-handed man said. “Isn’t thatwhat you said, Uncle Bruce?”“Absolutely,” Bruce agreed, with a puff on his cigar. He looked a bit relieved thatall the arguing had ceased, and that the scouts finally had an opportunity to do thesame thing they did every year. “Come on, Snow Scouts, let’s recite the Snow ScoutAlphabet Pledge as we dance around the Springpole.”The scouts cheered and followed Bruce onto the net. “Snow Scouts,” the SnowScouts said, “are accommodating, basic, calm, darling, emblematic, frisky, grinning,human, innocent, jumping, kept, limited, meek, nap-loving, official, pretty,quarantined, recent, scheduled, tidy, understandable, victorious, wholesome,xylophone, young, and zippered, every morning, every afternoon, every night, and allday long!”There is nothing wrong, of course, with having a pledge, and putting into wordswhat you might feel is important in your life as a reminder to yourself as you makeyour way in the world. If you feel, for instance, that well-read people are less likelyto be evil, and a world full of people sitting quietly with good books in their hands ispreferable to a world filled with schisms and sirens and other noisy and troublesomethings, then every time you enter a library you might say to yourself, “The world isquiet here,” as a sort of pledge proclaiming reading to be the greater good. If you feelthat well-read people ought to be lit on fire and their fortunes stolen, you might adoptthe saying “Fight fire with fire!” as your pledge, whenever you ordered one of yourcomrades around. But whatever words you might choose to describe your own life,there are two basic guidelines for composing a good pledge. One guideline is that thepledge make good sense, so that if your pledge contains the word “xylophone,” forexample, you mean that a percussion instrument played with mallets is veryimportant to you, and not that you simply couldn’t think of a good word that beginswith the letter X. The other guideline is that the pledge be relatively short, so if agroup of villains is luring you into a trap with a net and a group of exhausted trainedeagles, you’ll have more time to escape.The Snow Scout Alphabet Pledge, sadly, did not follow either of these guidelines.As the Snow Scouts promised to be “xylophone,” the man with a beard but no haircracked his whip in the air, and the eagles sitting on both villains’ shoulders began toflap their wings and, digging their claws into the thick pads, lifted the two sinisterpeople high in the air, and when the pledge neared its end, and the Snow Scouts wereall taking a big breath to make the snowy sound, the woman with hair but no beardblew her whistle, making a loud shriek the Baudelaires remembered from runninglaps as part of Olaf’s scheme at Prufrock Prep. The three siblings stood with Quigleyand watched as the rest of the eagles quickly dove to the ground, picked up the net,and, their wings trembling with the effort, lifted everyone who was standing on it intothe air, the way you might remove all the dinner dishes from the table by lifting allthe corners of the tablecloth. If you were to try such an unusual method of clearingthe table, you would likely be sent to your room or chased out of the restaurant, andthe results on Mount Fraught were equally disastrous. In moments, all of the SnowScouts and Olaf’s henchfolk were in an aerial heap, struggling together inside the netthat the eagles were holding. The only person who escaped recruitment — besidesthe Baudelaires and Quigley Quagmire, of course — was Carmelita Spats, standingnext to Count Olaf and his girlfriend.“What’s going on?” Bruce asked Count Olaf from inside the net. “What have youdone?”“I’ve triumphed,” Count Olaf said, “again. A long time ago, I tricked you out of areptile collection that I needed for my own use.” The Baudelaires looked at oneanother in astonishment, suddenly realizing when they had met Bruce before. “Andnow, I’ve tricked you out of a collection of children!”“What’s going to happen to us?” asked one of the Snow Scouts fearfully.“I don’t care,” said another Snow Scout, who seemed to be afflicted withStockholm Syndrome already. “Every year we hike up to Mount Fraught and do thesame thing. At least this year is a little different!”“Why are you recruiting me, too?” asked the hook-handed man, and theBaudelaires could see one of his hooks frantically sticking out of the net. “I alreadywork for you.”“Don’t worry, hooky,” Esmé replied mockingly. “It’s all for the greater good!”“Mush!” cried the man with a beard but no hair, cracking his whip in the air.Squawking in fear, the eagles began to drag the net across the sky, away from MountFraught .“You get the sugar bowl from those bratty orphans, Olaf,” ordered the woman withhair but no beard, “and we’ll all meet up at the last safe place!”“With these eagles at our disposal,” the sinister man said in his hoarse voice, “wecan finally catch up to that self-sustaining hot air mobile home and destroy thosevolunteers!”The Baudelaires gasped, and shared an astonished look with Quigley. The villainwas surely talking about the device that Hector had built at the Village of FowlDevotees, in which Duncan and Isadora had escaped.“We’ll fight fire with fire!” the woman with hair but no beard cried in triumph, andthe eagles carried her away. Count Olaf muttered something to himself and thenturned and began creeping toward the Baudelaires. “I only need one of you to learnwhere the sugar bowl is,” he said, his eyes shining brightly, “and to get my hands onthe fortune. But which one should it be?”“That’s a difficult decision,” Esmé said. “On one hand, it’s been enjoyable havingan infant servant. But it would be a lot of fun to smash Klaus’s glasses and watch himbump into things.”“But Violet has the longest hair,” Carmelita volunteered, as the Baudelaires backedtoward the cracked waterfall with Quigley right behind them. “You could yank on itall the time, and tie it to things when you were bored.”“Those are both excellent ideas,” Count Olaf said. “I’d forgotten what an adorablelittle girl you are. Why don’t you join us?”“Join you?” Carmelita asked.“Look at my stylish dress,” Esmé said to Carmelita. “If you joined us, I’d buy youall sorts of in outfits.”Carmelita looked thoughtful, gazing first at the children, and then at the twovillains standing next to her and smiling. The three Baudelaires shared a look ofhorrified disappointment with Quigley. The siblings remembered how monstrousCarmelita had been at school, but it had never occurred to them that she would beinterested in joining up with even more monstrous people.“Don’t believe them, Carmelita,” Quigley said, and took his purple notebook outof his pocket. “They’ll burn your parents’ house down. I have the evidence right here,in my commonplace book.”“What are you going to believe, Carmelita?” Count Olaf asked. “A silly book, orsomething an adult tells you?”“Look at us, you adorable little girl,” Esmé said, her yellow, orange, and red dresscrackling on the ground. “Do we look like the sort of people who like to burn downhouses?”“Carmelita!” Violet cried. “Don’t listen to them!”“Carmelita!” Klaus cried. “Don’t join them!”“Carmelita!” Sunny cried, which meant something like, “You’re making amonstrous decision!”“Carmelita,” Count Olaf said, in a sickeningly sweet voice. “Why don’t youchoose one orphan to live, and push the others off the cliff, and then we’ll all go to anice hotel together.”“You’ll be like the daughter we never had,” Esmé said, stroking her tiara.“Or something,” added Olaf, who looked like he would prefer having anotheremployee rather than a daughter.Carmelita glanced once more at the Baudelaires, and then smiled up at the twovillains. “Do you really think I’m adorable?” she asked.“I think you’re adorable, beautiful, cute, dainty, eye-pleasing, flawless, gorgeous,harmonious, impeccable, jaw-droppingly adorable, keen, luscious, magnificent, nifty,obviously adorable, photogenic, quite adorable, ravishing, splendid, thin,undeformed, very adorable, well-proportioned, xylophone, yummy, and zestfullyadorable,” Esmé pledged, “every morning, every afternoon, every night, and all daylong!”“Don’t listen to her!” Quigley pleaded. “A person can’t be ‘xylophone’!”“I don’t care!” Carmelita said. “I’m going to push these cakesniffers off themountain, and start an exciting and fashionable new life!”The Baudelaires took another step back, and Quigley followed, giving the childrena panicked look. Above them they could hear the squawking of the eagles as theytook the villains’ new recruits farther and farther away. Behind them they could feelthe four drafts of the valley below, where the headquarters had been destroyed bypeople the children’s parents had devoted their lives to stopping. Violet reached inher pocket for her ribbon, trying to imagine what she could invent that could get themaway from such villainous people, and journeying toward their fellow volunteers atthe last safe place. Her fingers brushed against the bread knife, and she wondered ifshe should remove the weapon from her pocket and use it to threaten the villains withviolence, or hether this, too, would make her as villainous as the man who wasstaring at her now.“Poor Baudelaires,” Count Olaf said mockingly. “You might as well give up.You’re hopelessly outnumbered.”“We’re not outnumbered at all,” Klaus said. “There are four of us, and only threeof you.”“I count triple because I’m the False Spring Queen,” Carmelita said, “so you areoutnumbered, cakesniffers.”This, of course, was more utter nonsense from the mouth of this cruel girl, buteven if it weren’t nonsense, it does not always matter if one is outnumbered or not.When Violet and Klaus were hiking toward the Valley of Four Drafts, for instance,they were outnumbered by the swarm of snow gnats, but they managed to findQuigley Quagmire, climb up the Vertical Flame Diversion to the headquarters, andfind the message hidden in the refrigerator. Sunny had been outnumbered by all ofthe villains on top of Mount Fraught , and had still managed to survive theexperience, discover the location of the last safe place, and concoct a few recipes thatwere as easy as they were delicious. And the members of V.F.D. have always beenoutnumbered, because the number of greedy and wicked people always seems to beincreasing, while more and more libraries go up in smoke, but the volunteers havemanaged to endure, a word which here means “meet in secret, communicate in code,and gather crucial evidence to foil the schemes of their enemies.” It does not alwaysmatter whether there are more people on your side of the schism than there are on theopposite side, and as the Baudelaires stood with Quigley and took one more stepback, they knew what was more important.“Rosebud!” Sunny cried, which meant ”In some situations, the location of acertain object can be much more important than being outnumbered,” and it was true.As the villains gasped in astonishment, Violet sat down in the toboggan, grabbing theleather straps. Quigley sat down behind her and put his arms around her waist, andKlaus sat down next, and put his arms around Quigley’s, and there was just enoughroom in back for a young girl, so Sunny sat behind her brother and hung on tight asViolet pushed off from the peak of Mount Fraught and sent the four children hurtlingdown the slope. It did not matter that they were outnumbered. It only mattered thatthey could escape from a monstrous end by racing down the last of the slippery slope,just as it only matters for you to escape from a monstrous end by putting down thelast of The Slippery Slope, and reading a book in which villains do not roar atchildren who are trying to escape.A Series of Unfortunate Events 10 - TheSlippery Slope“We’ll be right behind you, Baudelaires!” Count Olaf roared, as the tobogganracedtoward the Valley of Four Drafts, bumping and splashing against the crackedand melting ice.“He won’t be right behind us,” Violet said. “My shoes punctured his tire,remember?”Quigley nodded. “And he’ll have to take that path,” he said. “A car can’t go downa waterfall.”“We’ll have a head start,” Violet said. “Maybe we can reach the last safe placebefore he does.”“Overhear!” Sunny cried. “Hotel Denouement!”“Good work, Sunny!” Violet said proudly, pulling on the leather straps to steer thetoboggan away from the large crack. “I knew you’d be a good spy.”“Hotel Denouement,” Quigley said. “I think I have that in one of my maps. I’llcheck my commonplace book when we get to the bottom.”“Bruce!” Sunny cried.“That’s another thing to write down in our commonplace books,” Klaus agreed.“That man Bruce was at Dr. Montgomery’s house at the end of our stay. He said hewas packing up Monty’s reptile collection for the herpetological society.”“Do you think he’s really a member of V.F.D.?” Violet asked.“We can’t be sure,” Quigley said. “We’ve managed to investigate so manymysteries, and yet there’s still so much we don’t know.” He sighed thoughtfully, andgazed down at the ruins of headquarters rushing toward them. “My siblings — ”But the Baudelaires never got to hear any more about Quigley’s siblings, becauseat that moment the toboggan, despite Violet’s efforts with the leather straps, slippedagainst a melted section of the waterfall, and the large sled began to spin. Thechildren screamed, and Violet grabbed the straps as hard as she could, only to havethem break in her hands. “The steering mechanism is broken!” she yelled. “DraggingEsmé Squalor up the slope must have weakened the straps!”“Uh-oh!” Sunny cried, which meant something along the lines of, “That doesn’tsound like good news.”“At this velocity,” Violet said, using a scientific word for speed, “the tobogganwon’t stop when we reach the frozen pool. If we don’t slow down, we’ll fall rightinto the pit we dug.”Klaus was getting dizzy from all the spinning, and closed his eyes behind hisglasses. “What can we do?” he asked.“Drag your shoes against the ice!” Violet cried. “The forks should slow us down!”Quickly, the two elder Baudelaires stretched out their legs and dragged the forks oftheir shoes against the last of the ice on the slope. Quigley followed suit, but Sunny,who of course was not wearing fork-assisted climbing shoes, could do nothing butlisten to the scraping and splashing of the forks against the thawing ice of the streamas the toboggan slowed ever so slightly.“It’s not enough!” Klaus cried. As the toboggan continued to spin, he caught briefglimpses of the pit they had dug, covered with a thin layer of weakened wood, gettingcloser and closer as the four children hurtled toward the bottom of the waterfall.“Bicuspid?” Sunny asked, which meant something like “Should I drag my teethagainst the ice, too?”“It’s worth a try,” Klaus said, but as soon as the youngest Baudelaire leaned downand dragged her teeth along the thawing waterfall, the Baudelaires could see at oncethat it was not really worth a try at all, as the toboggan kept spinning and racingtoward the bottom.“That’s not enough, either,” Violet said, and focused her inventing mind as hard asshe could, remembering how she had stopped the caravan, when she and her brotherwere hurtling away from Count Olaf’s automobile. There was nothing large enoughto use as a drag chute, and the eldest Baudelaire found herself wishing that EsméSqualor were on board with them, so she could stop the toboggan with her enormous,flame-imitating dress. She knew there was no blackstrap molasses, wild cloverhoney, corn syrup, aged balsamic vinegar, apple butter, strawberry jam, caramelsauce, maple syrup, butterscotch topping, maraschino liqueur, virgin and extra-virginolive oil, lemon curd, dried apricots, mango chutney, crema di noci, tamarind paste,hot mustard, marshmallows, creamed corn, peanut butter, grape preserves, salt watertaffy, condensed milk, pumpkin pie filling, or glue on board, or any other stickysubstance, for that matter. But then she remembered the small table she had used todrag on the ground, behind the caravan, and she reached into her pocket and knewwhat she could .“Hang on!” Violet cried, but she did not hang on herself. Dropping the brokenstraps of the toboggan, she grabbed the long bread knife and took it out of her pocketat last. It had only been several days, but it felt like a very long time since she hadtaken the knife from the caravan, and it seemed that every few minutes she had feltits jagged blade in her pocket as she tried to defeat the villains high above her,without becoming a villain herself. But now, at last, there was something she coulddo with the knife that might save them all, without hurting anyone. Gritting her teeth,Violet leaned out of the spinning toboggan and thrust the knife as hard as she couldinto the ice of the slippery slope.The tip of the blade hit the crack caused by Carmelita’s Springpole, and then theentire knife sank into the slope just as the toboggan reached the bottom. There was asound the likes of which the Baudelaires had never heard, like a combination of anenormous window shattering and the deep, booming sound of someone firing acannon. The knife had widened the crack, and in one tremendous crash, the last of theice fell to pieces and all of the forks, sunlight, teeth, and tobogganing finally tooktheir toll on the waterfall. In one enormous whoosh!, the waters of the StrickenStream came rushing down the slope, and in a moment the Baudelaires were nolonger on a frozen pool at the bottom of a strange curve of ice, but simply at thebottom of a rushing waterfall, with gallons and gallons of water pouring down onthem. The orphans had just enough time to take a deep breath before the tobogganwas forced underwater. The three siblings hung on tight, but the eldest Baudelaire felta pair of hands slip from her waist, and when the wooden toboggan bobbed to thesurface again, she called out the name of her lost friend.“Quigley!” she screamed.“Violet!” The Baudelaires heard the triplet’s voice as the toboggan began to floatdown one of the tributaries. Klaus pointed, and through the rush of the waterfall thechildren could see a glimpse of their friend. He had managed to grab onto a piece ofwood from the ruins of headquarters, something that looked a bit like a banister, suchas one might need to walk up a narrow staircase leading to an astronomicalobservatory. The rush of the water was dragging the wood, and Quigley, down theopposite tributary of the Stricken Stream.“Quigley!” Violet screamed again.“Violet!” Quigley shouted, over the roar of the water. The siblings could see hehad removed his commonplace book from his pocket and was desperately waving itat them. “Wait for me! Wait for me at — ”But the Baudelaires heard no more. The Stricken Stream, in its sudden thaw fromthe arrival of False Spring, whisked the banister and the toboggan away from oneanother, down the two separate tributaries. The siblings had one last glimpse of thenotebook’s dark purple cover before Quigley rushed around one twist in the stream,and the Baudelaires rushed around another, and the triplet was gone from their sight.“Quigley!” Violet called, one more time, and tears sprung in her eyes.“He’s alive,” Klaus said, and held Violet’s shoulder to help her balance on thebobbing toboggan. She could not tell if the middle Baudelaire was crying, too, or ifhis face was just wet from the waterfall. “He’s alive, and that’s the important thing.”“Intrepid,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “Quigley Quagmire wasbrave and resourceful enough to survive the fire that destroyed his home, and I’msure he’ll survive this, too.”Violet could not bear that her friend was rushing away from her, so soon after firstmaking his acquaintance. “But we’re supposed to wait for him,” she said, “and we don’tknow where.”“Maybe he’s going to try to reach his siblings before the eagles do,” Klaus said,“but we don’t know where they are.”“Hotel Denouement?” Sunny guessed. “V.F.D.?”“Klaus,” Violet said, “you saw some of Quigley’s research. Do you know if thesetwo tributaries ever meet up again?”Klaus shook his head. “I don’t know,” he said. “Quigley’s the cartographer.”“Godot,” Sunny said, which meant “We don’t know where to go, and we don’tknow how to get there.”“We know some things,” Klaus said. “We know that someone sent a message toJ.S.”“Jacques,” Sunny said.Klaus nodded. “And we know that the message said to meet on Thursday at thelast safe place.”“Matahari,” Sunny said, and Klaus smiled, and pulled Sunny toward him so shewouldn’t fall off the floating toboggan. She was no longer a baby, but the youngestBaudelaire was still young enough to sit on her brother’s lap.“Yes,” Klaus agreed. “Thanks to you, we know that the last safe place is the HotelDenouement.”“But we don’t know where that is,” Violet said. “We don’t know where to findthese volunteers, or if indeed there are any more surviving members of V.F.D. Wecan’t even be certain what V.F.D. stands for, or if our parents are truly dead. Quigleywas right. We’ve managed to investigate so many mysteries, and yet there’s still somuch we don’t know.”Her siblings nodded sadly, and if I had been there at that moment, instead ofarriving far too late to see the Baudelaires, I would have nodded, too. Even for anauthor like myself, who has dedicated his entire life to investigating the mysteriesthat surround the Baudelaire case, there is still much I have been unable to discover. Ido not know, for instance, what happened to the two white-faced women whodecided to quit Olaf’s troupe and walk away, all by themselves, down the MortmainMountains. There are some who say that they still paint their faces white, and can beseen singing sad songs in some of the gloomiest music halls in the city. There aresome who say that they live together in the hinterlands, attempting to grow rhubarb inthe dry and barren ground. And there are those who say that they did not survive thetrip down from Mount Fraught , and that their bones can be found in one of the manycaves in the odd, square peaks. But although I have sat through song after drearysong, and tasted some of the worst rhubarb in my life, and brought bone after bone toa skeleton expert until she told me that I was making her so miserable that I shouldnever return, I have not been able to discover what truly happened to the two women.I do not know where the remains of the caravan are, as I have told you, and as I reachthe end of the rhyming dictionary, and read the short list of words that rhyme with“zucchini,” I am beginning to think I should stop my search for the destroyed vehicleand give up that particular part of my research. And I have not tracked down therefrigerator in which the Baudelaires found the Verbal Fridge Dialogue, despitestories that it is also in one of the Mortmain Mountain caves, or performing in someof the gloomiest music halls in the city.But even though there is much I do not know, there are a few mysteries that I havesolved for certain, and one thing I am sure about is where the Baudelaire orphanswent next, as the ashen waters of the Stricken Stream hurried their toboggan out ofthe Mortmain Mountains, just as the sugar bowl was hurried along, after thevolunteer tossed it into the stream to save it from the fire. But although I knowexactly where the Baudelaires went, and can even trace their path on a map drawn byone of the most promising young cartographers of our time, I am not the writer whocan describe it best. The writer who can most accurately and elegantly describe thepath of the three orphans was an associate of mine who, like the man who wrote “TheRoad Less Traveled,” is now dead. Before he died, however, he was widely regardedas a very good poet, although some people think his writings about religion were alittle too mean-spirited. His name was Algernon Charles Swinburne, and the lastquatrain of the eleventh stanza of his poem “The Garden of Proserpine” perfectlydescribes what the children found as this chapter in their story drew to an end, andthe next one began. The first half of the quatrain reads, That no life lives forever;That dead men rise up never; and indeed, the grown men in the Baudelaires’ liveswho were dead, such as Jacques Snicket, or the children’s father, were never going torise up. And the second half of the quatrain reads, < i>That even the weariest riverWinds somewhere safe to sea.This part is a bit trickier, because some poems are a bit like secret codes, in thatyou must study them carefully in order to discover their meaning. A poet such asQuigley Quagmire’s sister, Isadora, of course, would know at once what those twolines mean, but it took me quite some time before I decoded them. Eventually,however, it became clear that “the weariest river” refers to the Stricken Stream,which indeed seemed weary from carrying away all of the ashes from the destructionof V.F.D. headquarters, and that “winds somewhere safe to sea” refers to the last safeplace where all the volunteers, including Quigley Quagmire, could gather. As Sunnysaid, she and her siblings did not know where to go, and they didn’t know how to getthere, but the Baudelaire orphans were winding there anyway, and that is one thing Iknow for certain.A Series of Unfortunate Events 11 - TheGrim GrottoASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the EleventhThe Grim GrottoLemony SnicketC H A P T E ROneAfter a great deal of time examining oceans, investigating rainstorms, and staringvery hard at several drinking fountains, the scientists of the world developed a theoryregarding how water is distributed around our planet, which they have named “thewater cycle.” The water cycle consists of three key phenomena – evaporation,precipitation, and collection – and all of them are equally boring.Of course, it is boring to read about boring things, but it is better to readsomething that makes you yawn with boredom than something that will make youweep uncontrollably, pound your fists against the floor, and leave tearstains all overyour pillowcase, sheets, and boomerang collection. Like the water cycle, the tale ofthe Baudelaire children consists of three key phenomena, but rather than read theirsorry tale it would be best if you read something about the water cycle instead.Violet, the eldest phenomenon, was nearly fifteen years old and very nearly thebest inventor the world had ever seen. As far as I can tell she was certainly the bestinventor who had ever found herself trapped in the gray waters of the StrickenStream, clinging desperately to a toboggan as she was carried away from the Valleyof Four Drafts, and if I were you I would prefer to focus on the boring phenomenonof evaporation, which refers to the process of water turning into vapor and eventuallyforming clouds, rather than think about the turmoil that awaited her at the bottom ofthe Mortmain Mountains.Klaus was the second eldest of the Baudelaire siblings, but it would be better foryour health if you concentrated on the boring phenomenon of precipitation, whichrefers to vapor turning back into water and falling as rain, rather than spending evenone moment thinking about the phenomenon of Klaus’s excellent skills as aresearcher, and the amount of trouble and woe these skills would bring him once heand his siblings met up with Count Olaf, the notorious villain who had been after thechildren ever since their parents had perished in a terrible fire.And even Sunny Baudelaire, who had recently passed out of babyhood, is aphenomenon all to herself, not only for her very sharp teeth, which had helped theBaudelaires in a number of unpleasant circumstances, but also for her newfoundskills as a cook, which had fed the Baudelaires in a number of unpleasantcircumstances. Although the phenomenon of collection, which describes thegathering of fallen rain into one place so it can evaporate once more and begin theentire tedious process all over again, is probably the most boring phenomenon in thewater cycle, it would be far better for you to get up and go right to your nearestlibrary and spend several boring days reading every single boring fact you can findabout collection, because the phenomenon of what happens to Sunny Baudelaire overthe course of these pages is the most dreadful phenomenon I can think of, and I canthink of a great many. The water cycle may be a series of boring phenomena, but thestory of the Baudelaires is something else entirely, and this is an excellentopportunity to read something boring instead of learning what became of theBaudelaires as the rushing waters of the Stricken Stream carried them away from themountains.“What will become of us?” Violet asked, raising her voice to be heard over therushing water. “I don’t think I can invent anything that can stop this toboggan.”“I don’t think you should try,” Klaus called back to his sister. “The arrival of FalseSpring has thawed out the stream, but the waters are still very cold. If one of us fellinto the stream, I’m not sure how long we could survive.”“Quigley,” Sunny whimpered. The youngest Baudelaire often talked in a way thatcould be difficult to understand, but lately her speech had been developing almost asquickly as her cooking skills, and her siblings knew that Sunny was referring toQuigley Quagmire, with whom the Baudelaires had recently become friends. Quigleyhad helped Violet and Klaus reach the top of Mount Fraught in order to find theV.F.D. headquarters and rescue Sunny from Count Olaf’s clutches, but anothertributary of the Stricken Stream had carried him off in the opposite direction, and thecartographer – a word which here means “someone who is very good with maps, andof whom Violet Baudelaire was particularly fond” – didn’t even have a toboggan tokeep him out of the chilly water.“I’m sure Quigley has gotten out of the water,” Violet said quickly, although ofcourse she was sure of no such thing. “I only wish we knew where he was going. Hetold us to meet him somewhere, but the waterfall interrupted him.”The toboggan bobbed in the water as Klaus reached into his pocket and drew out adark blue notebook. The notebook had been a gift from Quigley, and Klaus was usingit as a commonplace book, a phrase which here means “notebook in which he wroteany interesting or useful information.” “We decoded that message telling us about animportant V.F.D. gathering on Thursday,” he said, “and thanks to Sunny, we knowthat the meeting is at the Hotel Denouement. Maybe that’s where Quigley wants tomeet us – at the last safe place.”“But we don’t know where it is,” Violet pointed out. “How can we meet someonein an unknown location?”The three Baudelaires sighed, and for a few moments the siblings sat quietly onthe toboggan and listened to the gurgling of the stream. There are some people wholike to watch a stream for hours, staring at the glittering water and thinking about themysteries of the world. But the waters of the Stricken Stream were too dirty to glitter,and every mystery the children tried to solve seemed to reveal even more mysteries,and even those mysteries contained mysteries, so when they pondered thesemysteries they felt more overwhelmed than thoughtful. They knew that V.F.D. was asecret organization, but they couldn’t seem to find out much about what theorganization did, or why it should concern the Baudelaires. They knew that CountOlaf was very eager to get his filthy hands on a certain sugar bowl, but they had noidea why the sugar bowl was so important, or where in the world it was. They knewthat there were people in the world who could help them, but so many of these people– guardians, friends, bankers – had proven to be of no help at all, or had vanishedfrom their lives just when the Baudelaires needed them most. And they knew therewere people in the world who would not help them – villainous people, and theirnumber seemed to be growing as their treachery and wickedness trickled all over theearth, like a dreadful water cycle of woe and despair. But right now the biggestmystery seemed to be what to do next, and as the Baudelaires huddled together on thefloating toboggan they could not think of a thing.“If we stay on the toboggan,” Violet said finally, “where do you think we’ll go?”“Down the mountains,” Klaus said. “Water runs downhill. The Stricken Streamprobably leads out of the Mortmain Mountains into the hinterlands, and theneventually it’ll lead to some larger body of water – a lake, or an ocean. From therethe water will evaporate into clouds, fall as rain and snow, and so on.”“Tedium,” Sunny said.“The water cycle is quite dull,” Klaus agreed, “but it might be the easiest way toget us away from Count Olaf.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “Olaf said he’d be right behind us.”“Esmelita,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “Along with Esmé Squalorand Carmelita Spats,” and the Baudelaires frowned as they thought of Olaf’sgirlfriend, who participated in Olaf’s schemes because she believed that treacheryand deception were very stylish, or “ in ,” and the former classmate of theBaudelaires’ who had recently joined Olaf for selfish reasons of her own.“So we’re just going to sit on this toboggan,” Violet asked, “and see where it takesus?”“It’s not much of a plan,” Klaus admitted, “but I can’t think of a better one.”“Passive,” Sunny said, and her siblings nodded glumly. “Passive” is an unusualword to hear from a baby, and in fact it is an unusual word to hear from a Baudelaireor anyone else who leads an interesting life. It merely means “accepting what ishappening without doing anything about it,” and certainly everyone has passivemoments from time to time. Perhaps you have experienced a passive moment at theshoe store, when you sat in a chair as the shoe salesperson forced your feet into aseries of ugly and uncomfortable shoes, when all the while you wanted a bright redpair with strange buckles that nobody on earth was going to buy for you. TheBaudelaires had experienced a passive moment at Briny Beach , where they hadlearned the terrible news about their parents, and had been numbly led by Mr. Poetoward their new unfortunate lives. I recently experienced a passive moment myself,sitting in a chair as a shoe salesperson forced my feet into a series of ugly anduncomfortable positions, when all the while I wanted a bright red pair of shoes withstrange buckles that nobody on earth was going to buy for me. But a passive momentin the middle of a rushing stream, when villainous people are hot on your trail, is adifficult moment to accept, which is why the Baudelaires fidgeted on the toboggan asthe Stricken Stream carried them further and further downhill, just as I fidgeted as Itried to plan my escape from that sinister shoe emporium. Violet fidgeted and thoughtof Quigley, hoping he had managed to escape from the cold water and get himself tosafety. Klaus fidgeted and thought of V.F.D., hoping that he could still learn moreabout the organization even though their headquarters had been destroyed. AndSunny fidgeted and thought of the fish in the Stricken Stream, who wouldoccasionally stick their heads out of the ashen water and cough. She was wonderingif the ashes, which were left in the water by a recent fire in the mountains and made itdifficult for the fish to breathe, would mean the fish wouldn’t taste very good, even ifyou used a recipe with plenty of butter and lemon.The Baudelaires were so busy fidgeting and thinking that when the tobogganrounded one of the odd, square sides of the mountain peaks, it was a moment beforethey noticed the view spread below them. Only when a few scraps of newspaper blewin front of their faces did the Baudelaires look down and gasp at what they saw.“What is it?” Violet said.“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “It’s hard to tell from so high up.”“Subjavik,” Sunny said, and she spoke the truth. From this side of the MortmainMountains , the Baudelaires had expected to see the hinterlands, a vast expanse offlat landscape where they had spent quite some time. Instead, it looked like the worldhad turned into a dark, dark sea. As far as the eye could see there were swirls of grayand black, moving like strange eels in shadowy water. Every so often one of theswirls would release a small, fragile object that would float up toward theBaudelaires like a feather. Some of these objects were scraps of newspaper. Othersappeared to be tiny bits of cloth. And some of them were so dark that they wereutterly unrecognizable, a phrase Sunny preferred to express as “subjavik.”Klaus squinted down through his glasses and then turned to his sisters with a lookof despair. “I know what it is,” he said quietly. “It’s the ruins of a fire.”The Baudelaires looked down again and saw that Klaus was right. From such aheight, it had taken the children a moment to realize that a great fire had ragedthrough the hinterlands, leaving only ashen scraps behind.“Of course,” Violet said. “It’s strange we didn’t recognize it before. But whowould set fire to the hinterlands?”“We did,” Klaus said.“Caligari,” Sunny said, reminding Violet of a terrible carnival in which theBaudelaires had spent some time in disguise. Sadly, as part of their disguise it had beennecessary to assist Count Olaf in burning down the carnival, and now they could see thefruits of their labors, a phrase which here means “the results of the terrible thing they did,even though they did not mean to do it at all.”“The fire isn’t our fault,” Violet said. “Not entirely. We had to help Olaf ,otherwise he would have discovered our disguises.”“He discovered our disguises anyway,” Klaus pointed out.“Noblaym,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “But it’s still not our fault.”“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “We didn’t think up the plot – Olaf did.”“We didn’t stop him, either,” Klaus pointed out. “And plenty of people think we’reentirely responsible. These scraps of newspaper are probably from The Daily Punctilio ,which has blamed us for all sorts of terrible crimes.”“You’re right,” Violet said with a sigh, although I have since discovered that Klauswas wrong, and that the scraps of paper blowing past the Baudelaires were fromanother publication that would have been of enormous help had they stopped tocollect the pieces. “Maybe we should be passive for a while. Being active hasn’thelped us much.”“In any case,” Klaus said, “we should stay on the toboggan. Fire can’t hurt us ifwe’re floating on a stream.”“It doesn’t seem like we have a choice,” Violet said. “Look.”The Baudelaires looked, and saw that the toboggan was approaching a sort ofintersection, where another tributary of the Stricken Stream was meeting up withtheirs. The stream was now much wider, and the water even rougher, so theBaudelaires had to hang on tight in order not to be thrown into the deepening waters.“We must be approaching a larger body of water,” Klaus said. “We’re furtheralong in the water cycle than I thought.”“Do you think that’s the tributary that carried away Quigley?” Violet said, craningher neck to look for her missing friend.“Selphawa!” Sunny cried, which meant “We can’t think about Quigley now – wehave to think about ourselves,” and the youngest Baudelaire was right. With a greatwhoosh! the stream turned another square corner, and within moments the waters ofthe stream were churning so violently that it felt as if the Baudelaires were riding awild horse rather than a broken toboggan.“Can you steer the toboggan toward the shore?” Klaus yelled over the sound of thestream.“No!” Violet cried. “The steering mechanism broke when we rode down thewaterfall, and the stream is too wide to paddle there!” Violet found a ribbon in herpocket and paused to tie up her hair in order to think better. She gazed down at thetoboggan and tried to think of various mechanical blueprints she had read in herchildhood, when her parents were alive and supportive of her interests in mechanicalengineering. “The runners of the toboggan,” she said, and then repeated it in a shoutto be heard over the water. “The runners! They help the toboggan maneuver on thesnow, but maybe they can help us steer on the water!”“Where are the runners?” Klaus asked, looking around.“On the bottom of the toboggan!” Violet cried.“Imposiyakto?” Sunny asked, which meant something like, “How can we get tothe bottom of the toboggan?”“I don’t know,” Violet said, and frantically checked her pockets for any inventingmaterials. She had been carrying a long bread knife, but now it was gone – probablycarried away by the stream, along with Quigley, when she had used it last. Shelooked straight ahead, at the frothy rush of water threatening to engulf them. Shegazed at the distant shores of the stream, which grew more and more distant as thestream continued to widen. And she looked at her siblings, who were waiting for herinventing skills to save them. Her siblings looked back, and all three Baudelaireslooked at one another for a moment, blinking dark water out of their eyes, as theytried to think of something to do.Just at that moment, however, one more eye arrived, also blinking dark water as itrose out of the stream, right in front of the Baudelaires. At first it seemed to be theeye of some terrible sea creature, found only in books of mythology and in theswimming pools of certain resorts. But as the toboggan took them closer, the childrencould see that the eye was made of metal, perched on top of a long metal pole thatcurved at the top so the eye could get a better look at them. It is very unusual to see ametal eye rising up out of the rushing waters of a stream, and yet this eye wassomething the Baudelaires had seen many times, since their first encounter with aneye tattoo on Count Olaf’s left ankle. The eye was an insignia, and when you lookedat it in a certain way it also looked like three mysterious letters.“V.F.D.!” Sunny cried, as the toboggan drew even closer.“What is it?” Klaus asked.“It’s a periscope!” Violet said. “Submarines use them to look at things above thewater!”“Does that mean,” Klaus cried, “that there’s a submarine beneath us?”Violet did not have to answer, because the eye rose further out of the water, andthe orphans could see that the pole was attached to a large, flat piece of metal, mostof which was under the water. The toboggan drew closer until the periscope was inreach, and then stopped, the way a raft will stop when it hits a large rock.“Look!” Violet cried as the stream rushed around them. She pointed to a hatch justat the bottom of the periscope. “Let’s knock – maybe they can hear us!”“But we have no idea who’s inside,” Klaus said.“Taykashans!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “It’s our only chance to travel safelythrough these waters,” and she leaned down to the hatch and scraped at it with herteeth. Her siblings joined her, preferring to use their fists to pound on the metal hatch.“Hello!” Violet cried.“Hello!” Klaus yelled.“Shalom!” Sunny shrieked.Over the sound of the rushing stream, the Baudelaires heard a very dim soundcoming from behind the hatch. The sound was a human voice, very deep and echoeyas if it were coming from the bottom of a well. “Friend or foe?” it said.The Baudelaires looked at one another. They knew, as I’m sure you know, that“friend or foe” is a traditional greeting directed at visitors who approach an importantplace, such as a royal palace or a fiercely guarded shoe store, and must identifythemselves as either a friend or a foe of the people inside. But the siblings did notknow if they were friends or foes for the simple reason that they had no idea who wastalking.“What should we say?” Violet asked, lowering her voice. “The eye might meanthat it’s Count Olaf’s submarine, in which case we’re foes.”“The eye might mean that it’s V.F.D.‘s submarine,” Klaus said, “in which casewe’re friends.”“Obvio!” Sunny said, which meant “There’s only one answer that will get us intothe submarine,” and she called down to the hatch, “Friend!”There was a pause, and the echoey voice spoke again. “Password, please,” it said.The Baudelaires looked at one another again. A password, of course, is a certainword or phrase that one utters in order to receive information or enter a secret place,and the siblings of course had no idea what they should say in order to enter asubmarine. For a moment none of the children said anything, merely tried to think,although they wished it were quieter so they could think without the distractions ofthe sounds of the rushing of water and the coughing of fish. They wished that insteadof being stranded on a toboggan in the middle of the Stricken Stream, they were insome quiet room, such as the Baudelaire library, where they could sit in silence andread up on what the password might be. But as the three siblings thought of onelibrary, one sibling remembered another: the ruined V.F.D. library, up in the Valley ofFour Drafts where the headquarters had once stood. Violet thought of an ironarchway, one of the few remnants of the library, and the motto that was etched into it.The eldest Baudelaire looked at her siblings and then leaned down to the hatch andrepeated the mysterious words she had seen, and that she hoped would bring her andher siblings to safety.“The world is quiet here,” she said. There was a pause, and with a loud, metalliccreak, the hatch opened, and the siblings peered into a dark hole, which had a ladderrunning along the side so they could climb down. They shivered, and not just fromthe icy chill of the mountain winds and the rushing dark waters of the StrickenStream. They shivered because they did not know where they were going, or whothey might meet if they climbed down into the hole. Instead of entering, theBaudelaires wanted to call something else down the hatch – the same words that hadbeen called up to them. “Friend or foe?” they wanted to say. “Friend or foe?” Wouldit be safer to enter the submarine, or safer to risk their lives outside, in the rushingwaters of the Stricken Stream? “Enter, Baudelaires,” the voice said, and whether itbelonged to friend or foe, the Baudelaires decided to climb inside.“Aye?” Sunny whispered to her siblings.“‘Aye,’” Klaus explained quietly, “is another word for ‘yes.’”“Aye!” the voice said again. “Keep your eyes open! Look out below! Look outabove! Look out for spies! Look out for one another! Look out! Aye! Be very careful!Be very aware! Be very much! Take a break! No – keep going! Stay awake! Calmdown! Cheer up! Keep climbing! Keep your shirt on! Aye!”As desperate as their situation was, the Baudelaires almost found themselvesgiggling. The voice was shouting out so many instructions, and so few of them madesense, that it would have been impossible for the children to follow them, and thevoice was quite cheerful and a bit scattered, as if whoever was talking did not reallycare if their instructions were followed and had probably forgotten them already.“Hold on to the railing!” the voice continued, as the Baudelaires spotted a light at theend of the passageway. “Aye! No – hold on to yourselves! No – hold on to your hats!No – hold on to your hands! No – hold on! Wait a minute! Wait a second! Stopwaiting! Stop war! Stop injustice! Stop bothering me! Aye!”Sunny had been the first to enter the passageway, and so she was the first to reachthe bottom and lower herself carefully into a small, dim room with a very low ceiling.Standing in the center of the room was an enormous man dressed in a shiny suit madeof some sort of slippery-looking material with equally slippery-looking boots on hisfeet. On the front of the suit was a portrait of a man with a beard, although the manhimself had no beard, merely a very long mustache curled up at both ends like a pairof parentheses. “One of you is a baby!” he cried, as Klaus and Violet loweredthemselves next to their sister. “Aye! No – both of you are babies! No – there’s threeof you! No – none of you are babies! Well, one of you sort of is a baby! Welcome!Aye! Hello! Good afternoon! Howdy! Shake my hand! Aye!”The Baudelaires hurriedly shook the man’s hand, which was covered in a glovemade of the same slippery material. “My name is Violet B –” Violet started to say.“Baudelaire!” the man interrupted. “I know! I’m not stupid! Aye! And you’reKlaus and Sunny! You’re the Baudelaires! The three Baudelaire children! Aye! Theones The Daily Punctilio blames for every crime they can think of but you’re reallyinnocent but nevertheless in a big heap of trouble! Of course! Nice to meet you! Inperson! So to speak! Let’s go! Follow me! Aye!”The man whirled around and stomped out of the room, leaving the bewilderedBaudelaires little else to do but follow him down a corridor. The corridor wascovered in metal pipes that ran along the walls, floor, and ceiling, so that theBaudelaires sometimes had to duck, or step very high, in order to make their way.Occasionally drops of water would drip from one of the pipes and land on theirheads, but they were already so damp from the Stricken Stream that they scarcelynoticed. Besides, they were far too busy trying to follow what the man was saying tothink of anything else.“Let’s see! I’ll put you to work right away! Aye! No – first I’ll give you a tour! No– I’ll give you lunch! No – I’ll introduce you to my crew! No – I’ll let you rest! No –I’d better get you into uniforms! Aye! It’s important that everyone aboard wear awaterproof uniform in case the submarine collapses and we find ourselvesunderwater! Of course, in that case we’ll need diving helmets! Except sunny becauseshe can’t wear one! I guess she’ll drown! No – she can curl up inside a divinghelmet! Aye! The helmets have a tiny door on the neck just for such a purpose! Aye!I’ve seen it done! I’ve seen so many things in my time!”“Excuse me,” Violet said, “but could you tell us who you are?”The man whirled around to face the children and held his hands up over his head.“What?” he roared. “You don’t know who I am? I’ve never been so insulted in mylife! No – I have. Many times, in fact. Aye! I remember when Count Olaf turned tome and said, in that horrible voice of his – No, never mind. I’ll tell you. I’m CaptainWiddershins. That’s spelled W-I-D-D-E-R-S-H-I-N-S. Backward it’s S-N-I-H-S-R –well, never mind. Nobody spells it backward! Except people who have no respect forthe alphabet! And they’re not here! Are they?”“No,” Klaus said. “We have a great deal of respect for the alphabet.”“I should say so!” the captain cried. “Klaus Baudelaire disrespect the alphabet?Why, it’s unthinkable! Aye! It’s illegal! It’s impossible! It’s not true! How dare yousay so! No – you didn’t say so! I apologize! One thousand pardons! Aye!”“Is this your submarine, Captain Widdershins? Violet asked.“What?” the captain roared. “You don’t know whose submarine it is? A renownedinventor like yourself and you haven’t the faintest sense of basic submarine history?Of course this is my submarine! It’s been my submarine for years! Aye! Have younever heard of Captain Widdershins and the Queequeg ? Have you never heard of theSubmarine Q and Its Crew of Two? That’s a little nickname I made up myself! With alittle help! Aye! I would think Josephine would have told you about the Queequeg !After all, I patrolled Lake Lachrymose for years! Poor Josephine! There’s not a day Idon’t think of her! Aye! Except some days when it slips my mind!”“Nottooti?” Sunny asked.“I was told it would take me some time to understand everything you said,” thecaptain said, looking down at Sunny. “I’m not sure I’ll find the time to learn anotherforeign language! Aye! Perhaps I could enroll in some night classes!”“What my sister means,” Violet said quickly, “is that she’s curious how you knowso much about us.”“How does anyone know anything about anything?” the captain replied. “I read it,of course! Aye! I’ve read every Volunteer Factual Dispatch I’ve received! Althoughlately I haven’t received any! Aye! That’s why I’m glad you happened along! Aye! Ithought I might faint when I peered through the periscope and saw your damp littlefaces staring back at me! Aye! I was sure it was you, but I didn’t hesitate to ask youthe password! Aye! I never hesitate! Aye! That’s my personal philosophy!”The captain stopped in the middle of the hallway, and pointed to a brass rectanglethat was attached to a wall. It was a plaque, a word which here means “metalrectangle with words carved on it, usually to indicate that something important hashappened on the spot where the rectangle is attached.” This plaque had a large V.F.D.eye carved into the top, watching over the words THE CAPTAIN’S PERSONALPHILOSOPHY carved in enormous letters, but the Baudelaires had to lean in close tosee what was printed beneath it.“‘He who hesitates is lost’!” the captain cried, pointing at each word with a thick,gloved finger.“‘Or she,’” Violet added, pointing to a pair of words that someone had added inscratchy handwriting.“My stepdaughter added that,” Captain Widdershins said. “And she’s right! ‘Orshe’! One day I was walking down this very hallway and I realized that anyone canbe lost if they hesitate! A giant octopus could be chasing you, and if you decided topause for a moment and tie your shoes, what would happen? All would be lost, that’swhat would happen! Aye! That’s why it’s my personal philosophy! I never hesitate!Never! Aye! Well, sometimes I do! But I try not to! Because He or she who hesitatesis lost! Let’s go!”Without hesitating a moment longer at the plaque, Captain Widdershins whirledaround and led the children further down the corridor, which echoed with the oddsound of his waterproof boots each time he took a step. The children were a bit dizzyfrom the captain’s chatter, and they were thinking about his personal philosophy andwhether or not it ought to be their personal philosophies as well. Having a personalphilosophy is like having a pet marmoset, because it may be very attractive when youacquire it, but there may be situations when it will not come in handy at all. “He orshe who hesitates is lost” sounded like a reasonable philosophy at first glance, but theBaudelaires could think of situations in which hesitating might be the best thing todo. Violet was glad she’d hesitated when she and her siblings were living with AuntJosephine, otherwise she might never have realized the importance of thepeppermints she found in her pocket. Klaus was glad he’d hesitated at HeimlichHospital , otherwise he might never have thought of a way to disguise Sunny andhimself as medical professionals so they could rescue Violet from havingunnecessary surgery. And Sunny was glad she’d hesitated outside Count Olaf’s tenton Mount Fraught, otherwise she might never have overheard the name of the lastsafe place, which the Baudelaires still hoped to reach. But despite all these incidentsin which hesitation had been very helpful, the children did not wish to adopt “He orshe who does not hesitate is lost” as their personal philosophy, because a giantoctopus might come along at any moment, particularly when the Baudelaires were onboard a submarine, and the siblings would be very foolish to hesitate if the octopuswere coming after them. Perhaps, the Baudelaires thought, the wisest personalphilosophy concerning hesitation would be “Sometimes he or she should hesitate andsometimes he or she should not hesitate,” but this seemed far too long and vague tobe much use on a plaque.“Maybe if I hadn’t hesitated,” the captain continued, “the Queequeg would havebeen repaired by now! Aye! The Submarine Q and Its Crew of Two is not in the bestof shape, I’m afraid! Aye! We’ve been attacked by villains and leeches, by sharks andrealtors, by pirates and girlfriends, by torpedoes and angry salmon! Aye!” He stoppedat a thick metal door, turned to the Baudelaires, and signed. “Everything from theradar mechanisms to my alarm clock is malfunctioning! Aye! That’s why I’m gladyou’re here, Violet Baudelaire! We’re desperate for someone with mechanicalsmarts!”“I’ll see what I can do,” Violet said.“Well, take a look!” Captain Widdershins cried, and swung open the door. TheBaudelaires followed him into an enormous, cavernous room that echoed when thecaptain spoke. There were pipes on the ceiling, pipes on the floor, and pipes stickingout of the walls at all angles. Between the pipes was a bewildering array of panelswith knobs, gears, and tiny screens, as well as tiny signs saying things like,DANGER!, WARNING!, and HE OR SHE WHO HESITATES IS LOST! Here andthere were a few green lights, and at the far end was an enormous wooden table piledwith books, maps, and dirty dishes, which stood beneath an enormous porthole, aword which here means “round window through which the Baudelaires could see thefilthy waters of the Stricken Stream.”“This is the belly of the beast!” the captain said. “Aye! It’s the center of alloperations aboard the Queequeg ! This is where we control the submarine, eat ourmeals, research our missions, and play board games when we’re tired of working!”He strode over to one panel and ducked his head beneath it. “Fiona!” he called.“Come out of there!”There was a faint rattling sound, and then the children saw something race outfrom under the panel and halfway across the floor. In the dim green light it took amoment to see it was a girl a bit older than Violet, who was lying faceup on a smallwheeled platform. She was wearing a suit just like Captain Widdershin’s, with thesame portrait of the bearded man on the front, and had a flashlight in one hand and apair of pliers in the other. Smiling, she handed the pliers to her stepfather, who helpedher up from the platform as she put on a pair of eyeglasses with triangular frames.“Baudelaires,” the captain said, “this is Fiona, my stepdaughter. Fiona, this isViolet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire.”“Charmed,” she said, extending a gloved hand first to Violet, then to Klaus, andfinally to Sunny, who gave Fiona a big toothy smile. “I’m sorry I wasn’t upstairs tomeet you. I’ve been trying to repair this telegram device, but electrical repair work isnot my specialty.”“Aye!” the captain said. “For quite some time we’ve stopped receiving telegrams,but Fiona can’t seem to make heads or tails of the device! Violet, get to work!”“You’ll have to forgive the way my stepfather speaks,” Fiona said, putting an armaround him. “It can take some getting used to.”“We don’t have time to get used to anything!” Captain Widdershins cried. “This isno time to be passive! He who hesitates is lost!”“Or she,” Fiona corrected quietly. “Come on, Violet, I’ll get you a uniform. Ifyou’re wondering whose portrait is one the front, it’s Herman Melville.”“He’s one of my favorite authors,” Klaus said. “I really enjoy the way hedramatizes the plight of overlooked people, such as poor sailors or exploitedyoungsters, through his strange, often experimental philosophical prose.”“I should have known you liked him,” Fiona replied. “When Josephine’s house fellinto the lake, my stepfather and I managed to save some of her library before itbecame too soaked. I read some of your decoding notes, Klaus. You’re a veryperceptive researcher.”“It’s very kind of you to say so,” Klaus said.“Aye!” the captain cried. “A perceptive researcher is just what we need!” Hestomped over to the table and lifted a pile of papers. “A certain taxi driver managedto smuggle these charts to me,” he said, “but I can’t make head or tail of them!They’re confusing! They’re confounding! They’re conversational! No – that’s notwhat I mean!”“I think you mean convoluted,” Klaus said, peering at the charts. “‘Conversational’means ‘having to do with conversations,’ but ‘convoluted’ means ‘complicated.’What kind of charts are they?”“Tidal charts!” the captain cried. “We have to figure out the exact course of thepredominant tides at the point where the Stricken Stream meets the sea! Klaus, I wantyou to find a uniform and then get to work immediately! Aye!”“Aye!” Klaus said, trying to get into the spirit of the Queequeg .“Aye!” the captain answered in a happy roar.“I?” Sunny asked.“Aye!” the captain said. “I haven’t forgotten about you, Sunny! I’d never forgetSunny! Never in a million years! Not that I will live that long! Particularly because Idon’t exercise very much! But I don’t like exercising, so it’s worth it! Why, Iremember when they wouldn’t let me go mountain climbing because I hadn’t trainedproperly, and –”“Perhaps you should tell Sunny what you have in mind for her to do,” Fiona saidgently.“Of course!” the captain roared. “Naturally! Our other crewman has been incharge of cooking, but all he does is make these terrible damp casseroles! I’m tired ofthem! I’m hoping your cooking skills might improve our meal situation!”“Sous,” Sunny said modestly, which meant something like, “I haven’t beencooking for very long,” and her siblings were quick to translate.“Well, we’re in a hurry!” the captain replied, walking over to a far door markedKITCHEN. “We can’t wait for Sunny to become an expert chef before getting towork! He or she who hesitates is lost!” He opened the door and called inside.“Cookie! Get out here and meet the Baudelaires!”The children heard some quiet, uneven footsteps, as if the cook had somethingwrong with one leg, and then a man limped through the door, wearing the sameuniform as the captain and a wide smile on his face.“Baudelaires!” he said. “I always believed I would see you again someday!”The three siblings looked at the man and then at one another in stupefaction, aword which here means “amazement at seeing a man for the first time since their stayat Lucky Smells Lumbermill, when his kindness toward them had been one of thefew positive aspects of that otherwise miserable chapter in their lives.” “Phil!” Violetcried. “What on earth are you doing here?”“He’s the second of our crew of two!” the captain cried. “Aye! The original secondin the crew of two was Fiona’s mother, but she died in a manatee accident quite a fewyears ago.”“I’m not so sure it was an accident,” Fiona said.“Then we had Jacques!” the captain continued. “Aye, and then what’s-his-name,Jacques’s brother, and then a dreadful woman who turned out to be a spy, and finallywe have Phil! Although I like to call him Cookie! I don’t know why!”“I was tired of working in the lumber industry,” Phil said. “I was sure I could finda better job, and look at me now – cook on a dilapidated submarine. Life keeps ongetting better and better.”“You always were an optimist,” Klaus said.“We don’t need an optimist!” Captain Widdershins said. “We need a cook! Get towork, Baudelaires! All of you! Aye! We have no time to waste! He who hesitates islost!”“Or she,” Fiona reminded her stepfather. “And do we really have to start right thisminute? I’m sure the Baudelaires are exhausted from their journey. We could spend anice quiet evening playing board games –”“Board games?” the captain said in astonishment. “Amusements? Entertainments?We don’t have time for such things! Aye! Today’s Saturday, which means we onlyhave five days left! Thursday is the V.F.D. gathering, and I don’t want anyone at theHotel Denouement to say that the Queequeg hasn’t performed its mission!”“Mission ?” Sunny asked.“Aye!” Captain Widdershins said. “We mustn’t hesitate! We must act! We musthurry! We must move! We must search! We must investigate! We must hunt! Wemust pursue! We must stop occasionally for a brief snack! We must find that sugarbowl before Count Olaf does! Aye ! ”The expression “Shiver me timbers!” comes from the society of pirates, who enjoyusing interesting expressions almost as much as jumping aboard other people’s shipsand stealing their valuables. It is an expression of extreme amazement, used incircumstances when one feels as if one’s very bones, or timbers, are shivering. I havenot used the expression since one rainy night when it was necessary to pose as apirate experiencing amazement, but when Captain Widdershins told the Baudelaireorphans where the Queequeg was going and what it was searching for, there was aperfect opportunity to utter these words.“Shiver me timbers!” Sunny cried.“Your timbers!” the captain cried back. “Are the Baudelaires practicing piracy?Aye! My heavens! If your parents knew that you were stealing the treasures of others–”“We’re not pirates, Captain Widdershins,” Violet said hastily. “Sunny is just usingan expression she learned from an old movie. She just means that we’re surprised.’“Surprised?” The captain paced up and down in front of them, his waterproof suitcrinkling with every step. “Do you think the Queequeg made its difficult way up theStricken Stream just for my own personal amusement? Aye? Do you think I wouldrisk such terrible danger simply because I had no other plans for the afternoon? Aye?Do you think it was a crazy coincidence that you ran into our periscope? Aye? Doyou think this uniform makes me look fat? Aye? Do you think members of V.F.D.would just sit and twiddle their thumbs while fount Olaf’s treachery covers the landlike crust covers the filling of a pie? Aye?”“You were looking for us?” Klaus asked in amazement. He was tempted to cry“Shiver me timbers!” like his sister, but he did not want to alarm CaptainWiddershins any further.“For you!” the captain cried. “Aye! For the sugar bowl! Aye! For justice! Aye!And liberty! Aye! For an opportunity to make the world quiet! Aye! And safe! Aye!And we may only have until Thursday! Aye! We’re in terrible danger! Aye! So get towork!”“Bamboozle!” Sunny cried.“My sister is confused,” Violet said, “and so are we, Captain Widdershins. If wecould just stop for a moment, and hear your story from the beginning –”“Stop for a moment?” the captain repeated in astonishment. “I’ve just explainedour desperate circumstances, and you’re asking me to hesitate? My dear girl,remember my personal philosophy! Aye! ‘He or she who hesitates is lost’! Now let’sget moving!”The children looked at one another in frustration. They did not want to get moving.It felt to the Baudelaire orphans that they had been moving almost constantly sincethat terrible day at the beach when their lives had been turned upside down. They hadmoved into Count Olaf’s home, and then into the homes of various guardians. Theyhad moved away from a village intent on burning them at the stake, and they hadmoved into a hospital that had burst into flames around them. They had moved to thehinterlands in the trunk of Count Olaf’s car, and they had moved away from thehinterlands in disguise. They had moved up the Mortmain Mountains hoping to findone of their parents, and they had moved down the Mortmain Mountains thinkingthey would never see their parents again, and now, in a tiny submarine in the StrickenStream, they wanted to stop moving, just for a little while, and receive some answersto questions they had been asking themselves since all this moving began.“Stepfather,” Fiona said gently, “why don’t you start up the Queegueg’s engines,and I’ll show the Baudelaires where our spare uniforms are?”“I’m the captain!” the captain announced. “Ave! I’ll give the orders around here!”Then he shrugged, and squinted up toward the ceiling. The Baudelaires noticed forthe first time a ladder of rope running up the side of wall. It led up to a small shelf,where the children could see a large wheel, probably for steering, and a few rustylevers and switches that were Byzantine in their design, a phrase which here means“so complicated that perhaps even Violet Baudelaire would have trouble workingthem.” “I order myself to go up the ladder,” the captain continued a bit sheepishly,“and start the engines of the Queequeg .’” With one last “Aye!” the captain beganhoisting himself toward the ceiling, and the Baudelaires were left alone with Fionaand Phil.“You must be overwhelmed, Baudelaire ‘-• Phil said. ”I remember my first dayaboard the Queequeg – it made Lucky Smells Lumbermill seem calm and quiet!”“Phil, why don’t you get the Baudelaires some soda, while I find them someuniforms?” Fiona said.“Soda?” Phil said, with a nervous glance at the captain, who was already halfwayup the ladder. “We’re supposed to save the soda for a special occasion.”“It is a special occasion,” Fiona said. “We’re welcoming three more volunteers onboard. What kind of soda do you prefer, Baudelaires?”“Anything but parsley,” Violet said, referring to a beverage enjoyed by EsméSqualor.“I’ll bring you some lemon-lime,” Phil said. “Sailors should always make surethere’s plenty of citrus in their system. I’m so glad to see you, children. You know, Iwouldn’t be here if it weren’t for you. I was so horrified after what happened inPaltryville that I couldn’t stay at Lucky Smells and since then my life has been onebig adventure!”“I’m sorry that your leg never healed,” Klaus said, referring to Phil’s limp. “Ididn’t realize the accident with the stamping machine was so serious,”“That’s not why I’m limping,” Phil said. “I was bitten by a shark last week. It wasvery painful, but I’m quite lucky. Most people never get an opportunity to get soclose to such a deadly animal!”The Baudelaires watched him as he limped back through the kitchen door,whistling a bouncy tune. “Was Phil always optimistic when you knew him?” Fionaasked.“Always,” Violet said, and her siblings nodded in agreement. “We’ve never knownanyone who could remain so cheerful, no matter what terrible things occurred,”“To tell you the truth, I sometimes find it a bit tiresome,” Fiona said, adjusting hertriangular glasses, “Shall we find you some uniforms?”The Baudelaires nodded, and followed Fiona out of the Main Hall and back intothe narrow corridor. “I know you have a lot of questions,” she said, “so Ill try to tellyou everything I know. My stepfather believes that he or she who hesitates is lost, butI have a more cautious personal philosophy.”“We’d be very grateful if you might tell us a few things,” Klaus said. “First, howdo you know who we are? Why were you looking for us? How did you know how tofind us?”“That’s a lot of firsts,” Fiona said with a smile. “I think you Baudelaires areforgetting that your exploits haven’t exactly been a secret. Nearly every day there’sbeen a story about you in one of the most popular newspapers.”“The Daily Punctilio?” Violet asked.’ “I hope you haven’t been believing thedreadful lies they’ve been printing about us.”“Of course not,” Fiona said. “But even the most ridiculous of stories can contain agrain of truth. The Daily Punctilio said that you’d murdered a man in the Village ofFowl Devotees, and set fires at Heimlich Hospital and Caligari Carnival. We knew, ofcourse, that you hadn’t committed these crimes, but we could tell that you had beenthere. My stepfather and I figured that you’d found the secret stain on MadameLulu’s map, and were headed for the V.F.D. headquarters.”Klaus gasped. “You know about Madame Lulu,” he said, “and the coded stain?”“My stepfather taught that code to Madame Lulu,” Fiona explained, “a long timeago, when they were both young. Well, we heard about the destruction of theheadquarters, so we assumed that you’d be heading back down the mountain. So I seta course for the Queequeg to journey up the Stricken Stream.”“You traveled all the way up here,” Klaus said, “just to find us?”Fiona looked down. “Well, no,” she said. “You weren’t the only thing at V.F.D.headquarters. One of our Volunteer Factual Dispatches told us that the sugar bowlwas there as well”“Dephinpat?” Sunny asked.“What are Volunteer Factual Dispatches exactly?” Violet translated.“They’re a way of sharing information,” Fiona said. “It’s difficult for volunteers tomeet up with one another, so when they unlock a mystery they can write it in atelegram. That way, important information gets circulated, and before long ourcommonplace books will be full of information we can use to defeat our enemies. Acommonplace book is a –”“We know what a commonplace book is,” Klaus said, and removed his dark bluenotebook from his pocket. “I’ve been keeping one myself.”Fiona smiled, and drummed her gloved fingers on the cover of Klaus’s book. “Ishould have. known,” she said. “If your sisters want to start books themselves, weshould have a few spares. Everything’s in our supply room.”“So are we going up to the ruins of the headquarters,” Violet asked, “to get thesugar bowl? We didn’t see it there.”“We think someone threw it out the window,” Fiona answered, “when the firebegan. If they threw the sugar bowl from the kitchen, it would have landed in theStricken Stream and been carried by the water cycle all the way down the mountains.We were seeing if it could be found at the bottom of the stream when we happenedupon you three.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 11 - TheGrim Grotto“The stream probably carried it much further than this,” Klaus said thoughtfully.“I think so too,” Fiona agreed. “I’m hoping that you can discover its location bystudying my stepfather’s tidal charts. I can’t make head or tail of them.”“I’ll show you how to read them,” Klaus said. “It’s not difficult.”“That’s what frightens me,” Fiona said. “If those charts aren’t difficult to read,then Count Olaf might have a chance of finding the sugar bowl before we do. Mystepfather says that if the sugar bowl falls into his hands, then all of the efforts of allthe volunteers will be for naught.”The Baudelaires nodded, and the four children made their way down the corridorin silence. The phrase “for naught” is simply a fancy way of saying “for nothing,”and it doesn’t matter which phrase you use, for they arc both equally difficult toadmit. Later this afternoon, for instance, I will enter a large room full of sand, and if Ido not find the test tube I am looking for, it will be difficult to admit that I have siftedthrough all that sand for nothing. If you insist on finishing this book, you will find itdifficult to admit, between bouts of weeping, that you have read this story for naught,and that it would have been better to page through tedious descriptions of the watercycle. And the Baudelaires did not want to find themselves admitting that all of theirtroubles had been for naught, that all their adventures meant nothing, and that theirentire lives were naught and nothing, if Count Olaf managed to find this crucial sugarbowl before they did. The three siblings followed Fiona down the dim corridor andhoped that their time aboard the Queequeg would not be another terrifying journeyending in more disappointment, disillusionment, and despair.For the moment, however, their journey ended at a small door where Fionastopped and turned to face the Baudelaires. “This is our supply room,” she said,“Inside you’ll find uniforms for the three of you, although even our smallest sizemight be too big for Sunny.”“Pinstripe,” Sunny said. She meant something like, “Don’t worry – I’m used toill-fitting clothing,” and her siblings were quick to translate.“You’ll need diving helmets, too,” Fiona said. “This is an old submarine, and itcould spring a leak. If the leak is serious, the pressure of the water could cause thewalls of the Queequeg to collapse, filling all these rooms and corridors with water.The oxygen systems contained in the diving helmets enable you to breatheunderwater – for a short time, anyway.”“Your stepfather said that the helmets would be too big for Sunny, and that she’dhave to curl up inside one,” Violet said. “Is that safe?”“Safe but uncomfortable,” Fiona said, “like everything else on the Queequeg. Thissubmarine used to be in wonderful shape, but without anyone who knows aboutmechanics, it’s not quite up to its former glory. Many of the rooms have flooded, soI’m sorry to say that we’ll be sleeping in very tight quarters. I hope you like bunkbeds.”“We’ve slept on worse,” Klaus said.“So I hear,” Fiona replied. “I read a description of the Orphans Shack at PrufrockPreparatory School . That sounded terrible.”“So you knew about us, even then?” Violet asked. “Why didn’t you find ussooner?”Fiona sighed. “We knew about you,” she said. “Every day I would read terriblestories in the newspaper, but my stepfather said we couldn’t do anything about all thetreachery those stories contained.”“Why not?” Klaus asked.“He said your troubles were too enormous,” she replied.“I don’t understand,” Violet said.“I don’t really understand, either,” Fiona admitted. “My stepfather said that theamount of treachery in this world is enormous, and that the best we could do was onesmall noble thing. That’s why we’re looking for the sugar bowl. You’d think thataccomplishing such a small task would be easy, but we’ve been looking for ages andstill haven’t found it.”“But what’s so important about the sugar bowl?” Klaus asked.Fiona sighed again, and blinked several times behind her triangular glasses. Shelooked so sad that the middle Baudelaire almost wished he hadn’t asked. “I don’tknow,” she said. “He won’t tell me.”“Whyno?” Sunny asked. “He said it was better I didn’t know,” Fiona said. “I guessthat’s enormous, too – an enormous secret. He said people had been destroyed forknowing such enormous secrets, and that he didn’t want me in that sort of danger.”“But you’re already in danger,” Klaus said. “We’re all in danger. We’re on boardan unstable submarine, trying to find a tiny, important object before a nefariousvillain gets his hands on it.”Fiona turned the handle of the door, which opened with a long, loud creak thatmade the Baudelaires shiver. The room was very small and very dim, lit only by onesmall green light, and for a moment, it looked like the room was full of people staringsilently at the children in the corridor. But then the siblings saw it was just a row ofuniforms, hanging limply from hooks along the wall. “I guess there are worsedangers,” Fiona said quietly. “I guess there are dangers we simply can’t imagine.”The Baudelaires looked at their companion and then at the eerie row of emptyuniforms. On a shelf above the waterproof suits was a row of large diving helmets,round spheres of metal with small circular windows in the middle so the childrenwould be able to see out when they put them on. In the dim green light, the helmetslooked a bit like eyes, glaring at the Baudelaires from the supply room just as the eyeon Count Olaf’s ankle had glared at them so many times before. Although they stillweren’t pirates, the siblings were tempted to say “shiver me timbers” once again asthey stepped inside the small, cramped room, and felt themselves shiver down to theirbones. They did not like to think about the Queequeg springing a leak or collapsing,or to imagine themselves frantically attaching the diving helmets to their heads – or,in Sunny’s case, frantically stuffing herself inside. They did not like to think aboutwhere Count Olaf might be, or imagine what would happen if he found the sugarbowl before they did. But most of all, the Baudelaire orphans did nor like to thinkabout the dangers Fiona had mentioned – danger worse than the ones they faced, ordangers they simply couldn’t imagine.C H A P T E RFourThe expression “fits like a glove” is an odd one, because there are many differenttypes of gloves and only a few of them are going to fit the situation you are in. If youneed to keep your hands warm in a cold environment, then you’ll need a fitted pair ofinsulated gloves, and a glove made to fit in the bureau of a dollhouse will be of nohelp whatsoever. If you need to sneak into a restaurant in the middle of the night andsteal a pair of chopsticks without being discovered, then you’ll need a sheer pair ofgloves that leave no marks, and a glove decorated with loud bells simply will not do.And if you need to pass unnoticed in a shrubbery-covered landscape, then you’ll needa very, very large glove made of green and leafy fabric, and an elegant pair of silkgloves will be entirely useless. Nevertheless, the expression “fits like a glove” simplymeans that something is very suitable, the way a custard is suitable for dessert, or apair of chopsticks is a suitable tool to remove papers from an open briefcase, andwhen the Baudelaire orphans put on the uniforms of the Queequeg they found thatthey fitted the children like a glove, despite the fact that they did not actually fit thatwell. Violet was so pleased that the uniforms had several loops around the waist, justperfect for holding tools, that she didn’t care that her sleeves bagged at the elbows.Klaus was happy that there was a waterproof pocket for his commonplace hook, anddidn’t care that his hoots were a bit too tight. And Sunny was reassured that the shinymaterial was sturdy enough to resist cooking spills as well as water, and didn’t mindrolling up the legs of the suit almost all the way so she could walk. But it was morethan the individual features of the uniforms that felt fitting – it was the place and thepeople they represented. For a long time the Baudelaires had felt as if their lives werea damaged Frisbee, tossed from person to person and from place to place withoutever really being appreciated or fitting in. But as they zipped up their uniforms andsmoothed out the portraits of Herman Melville, the children felt as if the Frisbee oftheir lives just might be repaired. In wearing the uniform of the Queequeg , thesiblings felt a part of something – not a family, exactly, but a gathering of people whohad all volunteered for the same mission. To think that their skills in inventing,research, and cooking would be appreciated was something they had not thought in along time, and as they stood in the supply room and regarded one another, this feelingfit them like a glove.“Shall we go back to the Main Hall?” Violet asked. “I’m ready to take a look at thetelegram device.”“Let me just loosen the buckles on these boots,” Klaus said, “and I’ll be ready totackle those tidal charts.”“Cuisi” Sunny said. By “Cuisi,” she meant something like, “I’m looking forwardto examining the kitch –” but a loud scraping sound from overhead stopped theyoungest Baudelaire from finishing her sentence. The entire submarine seemed toshake, and a few drops of water fell from the ceiling onto the Baudelaires’ heads.“What was that?” Violet asked, picking up a diving helmet. “Do you think theQueequeg has sprung a leak?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said, picking up one helmet for himself and another forSunny. “Let’s go find out.”The three Baudelaires hurried back down the corridor to the Main Hall as thehorrid scraping sound continued. If you have ever heard the sound of fingernailsagainst a chalkboard, then you know how unnerving a scraping sound can be, and tothe children it sounded as if the largest fingernails in the world had mistaken thesubmarine for a piece of educational equipment.“Captain Widdershins!” Violet cried over the scraping sound as the Baudelairesentered the hall. The captain was still at the top of the ladder, grasping the steeringwheel in his gloved hand. “What’s going on?”“This darned steering mechanism is a disgrace!” the captain cried in disgust. “Aye!The Queequeg just bumped against a rock formation on the side of the stream. If Ihadn’t managed to get the sub back in control, the Submarine Q and Its Crew of Twowould be sleeping with the fishes! Aye!”“Perhaps I should examine the steering mechanism first,” Violet said, “and fix thetelegram device later.”“Don’t be ridiculous!” the captain said. “If we can’t receive any Volunteer FactualDispatches, we might as well be wandering around with our eyes closed! We mustfind the sugar bowl before Count Olaf! Aye! Our personal safety isn’t nearly asimportant! Now hurry up! Aye! Get a move on! Aye! Get cracking! Aye! Get a glassof water if you’re thirsty! Aye! He or she who hesitates is lost!”Violet didn’t bother to point out that finding the sugar bowl would be impossible ifthe submarine was destroyed, and she knew better than to argue with the captain’spersonal philosophy.“It’s worth a try,” she said, and walked over to the small wheeled platform. “Doyou mind if I use this?” she asked Fiona. “It’ll help me get a good look at the device’smachinery.”“Be my guest,” Fiona said. “Klaus, let’s get to work on the tidal charts. We canstudy them at the table, and keep an eye out for glimpses of the sugar bowl throughthe porthole. I don’t think we’ll see it, but it’s worth taking a look.”“Fiona,” Violet said hesitantly, “could you also take a look for our friend, QuigleyQuagmire? He was carried away by the stream’s other tributary, and we haven’t seenhim since.”“Quigley Quagmire?” Fiona asked. “The cartographer?”“He’s a friend of ours,” Klaus said. “Do you know him?”“Only by reputation,” Fiona said, using a phrase which here means “I don’t knowhim personally but I’ve heard of the work he does.”“The volunteers lost track of him a long time ago, along with Hector and the otherQuagmire triplets.”“The Quagmires haven’t been as lucky as we have,” Violet said, tying her hair upin a ribbon to help her focus on repairing the telegram device. “I’m hoping you’llspot him with the periscope.”“It’s worth a try,” Fiona said, as Phil walked through the kitchen doors, wearing anapron over his uniform.“Sunny?” he asked. “I heard you were going to help me in the kitchen. We’re a bitlow on supplies, I’m afraid. Using the Queequeg nets I managed to catch a few cod,and we have half a sack of potatoes, but not much else. Do you have any ideas aboutwhat to make for dinner?”“Chowda?” Sunny asked.“It’s worth a try,” Phil said, and for the next few hours, all three Baudelaires triedto see if their tasks were worth a try.Violet wheeled herself underneath several pipes to get a good look at the telegramdevice, and frowned as she twisted wires and tightened a few screws with ascrewdriver she found lying around. Klaus sat at the table and looked over the tidalcharts, using a pencil to trace possible paths the sugar bowl might have taken as thewater cycle sent it tumbling down the Stricken Stream. And Sunny worked with Phil,standing on a large soup pot so she could reach the counter of the small, grimykitchen, boiling potatoes and picking tiny bones out of the cod. And as the afternoonturned to evening, and the waters of the Stricken Stream grew even darker in theporthole, the Main Hall of the Queequeg was quiet as all the volunteers worked onthe tasks at hand. But even when Captain Widdershins climbed down from the ladder,retrieved a small bell from a pocket of his uniform, and filled the room with theechoes of its loud, metallic ring, the Baudelaires could not be certain if all theirefforts had been worth a try at all.“Attention!” the captain said. “Aye! I want the entire crew of the Queequeg toreport on their progress! Gather ‘round the table and tell me what’s going on!” Violetwheeled herself out from under the telegram device, and joined her brother and Fionaat the table, while Sunny and Phil emerged from the kitchen.“I’ll report first!” the captain said. “Aye! Because I’m the captain! Not becauseI’m showing off! Aye! I try not to show off very much! Aye! Because it’s rude! Aye!I’ve managed to steer us further down the Stricken Stream without humping intoanything else! Aye! Which is much harder than it sounds! Aye! We’ve reached thesea! Aye! Now it should be easier not to run into anything! Aye! Violet, what aboutyou?”“Well, I thoroughly examined the telegram device,” Violet said. “I made a fewminor repairs, but I found nothing that would interfere with receiving a telegram.”“You’re saying that the device isn’t broken, aye?” the captain demanded.“Aye,” Violet said, growing more comfortable with the captain’s speech. “I thinkthere must be a problem at the other end.”“Procto?” Sunny asked, which meant “The other end?”“A telegram requires two devices,” Violet said. “One to send the message and theother to receive it. I think you haven’t been receiving Volunteer Factual Dispatchesbecause whoever sends the messages is having a problem with their machine.”“But all sorts of volunteers send us messages,” Fiona said. “Aye!” the captain said.“We’ve received dispatches from more than twenty-five agents!”“Then many machines must be damaged,” Violet replied.“Sabotage,” Klaus said.“It does sound like the damage has been done on purpose,” Violet agreed.“Remember when we sent a telegram to Mr. Poe, from the Last Chance GeneralStore?”“Silencio,” Sunny said, which meant “We never heard a reply.”“They’re closing in,” the captain said darkly. “Our enemies are preventing us fromcommunicating.”“I don’t see how Count Olaf would have time to destroy all those machines,”Klaus said.“Many telegrams travel through telephone lines,” Fiona said. “It wouldn’t bedifficult.”“Besides, Olaf isn’t the only enemy,” Violet said, thinking of two other villains theBaudelaires had encountered on Mount Fraught .“Aye!” the captain said. “That’s for certain. There is evil out there you cannot evenimagine. Klaus, have you made any progress on the tidal charts?”Klaus spread out a chart on the table so everyone could see. The chart was reallymore of a map, showing the Stricken Stream winding through the mountains beforereaching the sea, with tiny arrows and notations describing the way the water wasmoving. The arrows and notes were in several different colors of ink, as if the charthad been passed from researcher to researcher, each adding notes as he or shediscovered more information about the area. “It’s more complicated than I thought,”the middle Baudelaire said, “and much more dull. These charts note every singledetail concerning the water cycle.”“Dull?” the captain roared. “Aye? We’re in the middle of a desperate mission andall you can think of is your own entertainment? Aye? Do you want us to hesitate?Stop our activities and put on a puppet show just so you won’t find this submarinedull?”“You misunderstood me,” Klaus said quickly. “All I meant was that it’s easier toresearch something that’s interesting.”“You sound like Fiona,” the captain said. “When I want her to research the life ofHerman Melville, she works slowly, but she’s quick as a whip when the subject ismushrooms.”“Mushrooms?” Klaus asked. “Are you a mycologist?”Fiona smiled, and her eyes grew wide behind her triangular glasses. “I neverthought I’d meet someone who knew that word,” she said. “Besides me. Yes, I’m amycologist. I’ve been interested in fungi all my life. If we have time, I’ll show youmy mycological library.”“Time?” Captain Widdershins repeated. “We don’t have time for fungus books!Aye! We don’t have time for you two to do all that flirting, either!”“We’re not flirting!” Fiona said. “We’re having a conversation.”“It looked like flirting to me,” the captain said. “Aye!”“Why don’t you tell us about your research,” Violet said to Klaus, knowing thather brother would rather talk about the tidal charts than his personal life.Klaus gave her a grateful smile and pointed to a point on the chart. “If mycalculations are correct,” he said, “the sugar bowl would have been carried down thesane tributary we went down in the toboggan. The prevailing currents of the streamlead all the way down here, where the sea begins.”“So it was carried out to sea,” Violet said.“I think so,” Klaus said. “And we can see here that the tides would move it awayfrom Sontag Shore in a northeasterly direction.”“Sink?” Sunny asked, which meant something like, “Wouldn’t the sugar bowl justdrift to the ocean floor?”“It’s too small,” Klaus said. “Oceans are in constant motion, and an object thatfalls into the sea could end up miles away. It appears that the tides and currents in thispart of the ocean would take the sugar bowl past the Gulag Archipelago here, andthen head down toward the Mediocre Barrier Reef before turning at this point here,which is marked ‘A.A.’ Do you know what that is, Captain? It looks like some sort offloating structure.”The captain sighed, and raised one finger to fiddle with the curl of his mustache.“Aye,” he said sadly. “Anwhistle Aquatics. It’s a marine research center and arhetorical advice service – or it was. It burned down.”“Anwhistle?” Violet asked. “That was Aunt Josephine’s last name.”“Aye,” the captain said. “Anwhistle Aquatics was founded by Gregor Anwhistle,the famous ichnologist and Josephine’s brother-in-law. But all that’s ancient history.Where did the sugar bowl go next?”The Baudelaires would have preferred to learn more, but knew better than to arguewith the captain, and Klaus pointed to a small oval on the chart to continue his report.“This is the part that confuses me,” he said. “You see this oval, right next toAnwhistle Aquatics? It’s marked but there’s no other explanation.”Captain Widdershins said, and stroked his mustache thoughtfully. “I’ve never seenan oval like that on a chart like this.”“There’s something else confusing about it,” Klaus said, peering at the oval. Thereare two different arrows inside it, and each one points in a different direction.”“It looks like the tide is going two ways at once,” Fiona said.Violet frowned. “That doesn’t make any sense,” she said.“I’m confused, too,” Klaus said. “According to my calculations, the sugar bowlwas probably carried right to this place on the map. But where it went from there Ican’t imagine.”“I guess we should set a course for G.G., whatever it might be,” Violet said, “andsee what we can find when we get there.”“I’m the captain!” the captain cried. “I’ll give the orders around here! Aye! And Iorder that we set a course for that oval, and see what we can find when we get there!But first I’m hungry! And thirsty! Aye! And my arm itches! I can scratch my ownarm, but Cookie and Sunny, you are responsible for food and drink! Aye!”“Sunny helped me make a chowder that should be ready in a few minutes,” Philsaid. “Her teeth were very handy in dicing the boiled potatoes.”“Flush,” Sunny said, which meant “Don’t worry – I cleaned my teeth before usingthem as kitchen implements.”“Chowder? Aye! Chowder sounds delicious!” the captain cried. “And what aboutdessert? Aye? Dessert is the most important meal of the day! Aye! In my opinion!Even though it’s not really a meal! Aye!”“Tonight, the only dessert we have is gum,” Phil said. “I still have some left frommy days at the lumbermill.”“I think I’ll pass on dessert,” Klaus said, who’d had such a terrible time at LuckySmells Lumbermill that he no longer had a taste for gum.“Yomhuledet,” Sunny said. She meant “Don’t worry – Phil and I have arranged asurprise dessert for tomorrow night,” but of course only her siblings could understandthe youngest Baudelaire’s unusual way of talking.Nevertheless, as soon as Sunny spoke, Captain Widdershins stood up from thetable and began crying out in astonishment. “Aye!” he cried. “Dear God! HolyBuddha! Charles Darwin! Duke Ellington! Aye! Fiona – turn off the engines! Aye!Cookie – turn off the stove! Aye! Violet – make sure the telegram device is off! Aye!Klaus! Gather your materials together so nothing rolls around! Aye! Calm down!Work quickly! Don’t panic! Help! Aye!”“What’s going on?” Phil asked.“What is it, stepfather?” Fiona asked.For once, the captain was silent, and merely pointed at a screen on the submarinewall. The screen looked like a piece of graph paper, lit up in green light, with aglowing letter Q in the center.“That looks like a sonar detector,” Violet said.“It is a sonar detector,” Fiona said. “We can tell if any other undersea craft areapproaching us by detecting the sounds they make. The Q represents the Queequegand –”The mycologist gasped, and the Baudelaires looked at where she was pointing. Atthe very top of the panel was another glowing symbol, which was moving down thescreen at a fast clip, a phrase which here means “straight toward the Queequeg .”Fiona did not say what this green symbol stood for, and the children could not bear toask. It was an eye, staring at the frightened volunteers and wiggling its long, skinnyeyelashes, which protruded from every side.“Olaf!” Sunny said in a whisper.“There’s no way of knowing for sure,” Fiona said, “but we’d better follow mystepfather’s orders. If it’s another submarine, then it has a sonar detector too. If theQueequeg is absolutely silent, they’ll have no idea we’re here.”“Aye!” the captain said. “Hurry! He who hesitates is lost!”Nobody bothered to add “Or she” to the captain ‘s personal philosophy, but insteadhurried to silence the submarine. Fiona climbed up the rope ladder and turned off thewhirring engine. Violet wheeled back into the machinery of the telegram device andturned it off. Phil and Sunny ran into the kitchen to turn off the stove, so even thebubbling of their homemade chowder would not give the Queequeg away. And Klausand the captain gathered up the materials on the table so that nothing would makeeven the slightest rattle. Within moments the submarine was silent as a grave, and allthe volunteers stood mutely at the table, looking out the porthole into the gloomywater of the sea.As the eye on the sonar screen drew closer to the Q, they could see somethingemerge from the darkened waters – a strange shape that became clearer as it gotcloser and closer to the Queequeg . It was, indeed, another submarine, the likes ofwhich the Baudelaires had never seen before, even in the strangest of books. It wasmuch, much bigger than the Queequeg , and as it approached, the children had tocover their mouths so their gasps could not be heard.The second submarine was in the shape of a giant octopus, with an enormousmetal dome for a head and two wide portholes for eyes. A real octopus, of course, haseight legs, but this submarine had many more. What had appeared to be eyelashes onthe sonar screen were really small metal tubes, protruding from the body of theoctopus and circling in the water, making thousands of bubbles that hurried towardthe surface as if they were frightened of the underwater craft.The octopus drew closer, and all six passengers on the Queequeg stood as still asstatues, hoping the submarine had not discovered them. The strange craft was soclose the Baudelaires could see a shadowy figure inside one of the octopus’s eyes – atall, lean figure, and although the children could not see any further details, they werepositive the figure had one eyebrow instead of two, filthy fingernails instead of goodgrooming habits, and a tattoo of an eye on its left ankle.“Count Olaf,” Sunny whispered, before she could stop herself.The figure in the porthole twitched, as if Sunny’s tiny noise had caused theQueequeg to be detected. Spouting more bubbles, the octopus drew closer still, andany moment it seemed that one of the legs of the octopus would be heard scrapingagainst the outside of the Queequeg . The three children looked down at theirhelmets, which they had left on the floor, and wondered if they should put them on,so they might survive if the submarine collapsed.Fiona grabbed her stepfather ‘s arm, but Captain Widdershins shook his headsilently, and pointed at the sonar screen again. The eye and the Q were almost on topof one another on the screen, but that was not what the captain was pointing at. Therewas a third shape of glowing green light, this one the biggest of all, a huge curvedtube with a small circle at the end of it, slithering toward the center of the screen likea snake. But this third underwater craft didn’t look like a snake. As it approached theeye and the Q, the small circle leading the enormous curved tube toward theQueequeg and its frightened volunteer crew, the shape looked more like a questionmark.The Baudelaires stared at this new, third shape approaching them in eerie silence,and felt as if they were about to be consumed by the very questions they were tryingto answer. Captain Widdershins pointed at the porthole again, and the childrenwatched the octopus stop, as if it too had detected this strange third shape. Then thelegs of the octopus began whirring even more furiously, and the strange submarinebegan to recede from view, a phrase which here means “disappear from the portholeas it hurried away from the Queequeg .”The Baudelaires looked at the sonar screen, and watched the question mark followthe glowing green eye in silence until both shapes disappeared from the sonardetector and the Queequeg was alone. The six passengers waited a moment and thensighed with relief.“It’s gone,” Violet said. “Count Olaf didn’t find us.”“I knew we’d be safe,” Phil said, optimistic as usual. “Olaf is probably in a goodmood anyway.”The Baudelaires did not bother to say that their enemy was only in a good moodwhen one of his treacherous plans was succeeding, or when the enormous fortune,left behind by the Baudelaire parents, appeared to be falling into his grubby hands.“What was that, Stepfather?” Fiona said. “Why did he leave?”“What was that third shape?” Violet asked. The captain shook his head again.“Something very bad,” he said. “Even worse than Olaf, probably. I told youBaudelaires that there is evil you cannot even imagine.”“We don’t have to imagine it,” Klaus said. “We saw it there on the screen.”“That screen is nothing,” the captain said. “It’s just a piece of equipment, aye?There was a philosopher who said that all of life is just shadows. He said that peoplewere just sitting in a cave, watching shadows on the cave wall. Aye – shadows ofsomething much bigger and grander than themselves. Well, that sonar detector is likeour cave wall, showing us the shape of things much more powerful and terrifying.”“I don’t understand,” Fiona said.“I don’t want you to understand,” the captain said, putting his arm around her.“That’s why I haven’t told you why the sugar bowl is so very crucial. There aresecrets in this world too terrible for young people to know, even as those secrets getcloser and closer. Aye! In any case, I’m hungry. Aye! Shall we eat?” The captain ranghis bell again, and the Baudelaires felt as if they had awoken from a deep sleep.“I’ll serve the chowder,” Phil said. “Come on, Sunny, why don’t you help me?”“I’ll turn the engines back on,” Fiona said, and began climbing the rope ladder.“Violet, there’s a drawer in the table full of silverware. Perhaps you and your brothercould set the table.”“Of course,” Violet said, but then frowned as she turned to her brother. The middleBaudelaire was staring at the tidal chart with a look of utter concentration. His eyeswere so bright behind his glasses that they looked a bit like the glowing symbols onthe sonar detector. “Klaus?” she said.Klaus didn’t answer his sister, but turned his gaze from the chart to CaptainWiddershins. “I may not know why the sugar bowl’s important,” he said, “but I’vejust figured out where it is.”C H A P T E RFiveWhen you are invited to dine, particularly with people you do not know very well,it always helps to have a conversational opener, a phrase which here means “aninteresting sentence to say out loud in order to get people talking.” Although lately ithas become more and more difficult to attend dinner parties without the eveningending in gunfire or tapioca, I keep a list of good and had conversational openers inmy commonplace book in order to avoid awkward pauses at the dinner table. “Whowould like to see an assortment of photographs taken while I was on vacation?” forinstance, is a very poor conversational opener, because it is likely to make yourfellow diners shudder instead of talk, whereas good conversational openers aresentences such as “What would drive a man to commit arson?”, “Why do so manystories of true love end in tragedy and despair?” and “Madame diLustro, I believeI’ve discovered your true identity!”, all of which are likely to provoke discussions,arguments, and accusations, thus making the dinner party much more entertaining.When Klaus Baudelaire announced that he’d discovered the location of the sugarbowl, it was one of the best conversational openers in the history of dinnergatherings, because everyone aboard the Queequeg began talking at once, and dinnerhad not even been served.“Aye?” Captain Widdershins shouted. “You’ve figured out where the tide took it?Aye? But you just said you didn’t know! Aye! You said you were confused by thetidal charts, and that oval marked ‘G.G.’! Aye! And yet you’ve figured it out! Aye!You’re a genius! Aye! You’re a smarty-pants! Aye! You’re a bookworm! Aye! You’rebrilliant! Aye! You’re sensational! Aye! If you find me the sugar bowl, I’ll allow youto marry Fiona!”“Stepfather!” Fiona cried, blushing behind her triangular glasses.“Don’t worry,” the captain replied, “we’ll find a husband for Violet, too! Aye!Perhaps we’ll find your long-lost brother, Fiona! He’s much older, of course, and he’sbeen missing for years, but if Klaus can locate the sugar bowl he could probably findhim! Aye! He’s a charming man, so you’d probably fall in love with him, Violet, andthen we could have a double wedding! Aye! Right here in the Main Hall of theQueequeg ! Aye! I would be happy to officiate! Aye! I have a bow tie I’ve beensaving for a special occasion!”“Captain Widdershins,” Violet said, “let’s try to stick to the subject of the sugarbowl.” She did not add that she was not interested in getting married for quite sometime, particularly after Count Olaf had tried to marry her in one of his early schemes.“Aye!” the captain cried. “Of course! Naturally! Aye! Tell us everything, Klaus!We’ll eat while you talk! Aye! Sunny! Cookie! Serve the chowder!”“Chowder is served!” announced Phil, as he hurried from the kitchen carrying twosteaming bowls of thick soup.The youngest Baudelaire trailed behind him. Sunny was still a bit too young tocarry hot food by herself, but she had found a pepper grinder, and circled the tableoffering fresh ground pepper to anyone who wanted some.“Double pepper for me, Sunny!” Captain Widdershins cried, snatching the firstbowl of chowder, although it is more polite to let one’s guests be served first. “A nicehot bowl of chowder! A double helping of pepper! The location of the sugar bowl!Aye! That’ll blow the barnacles off me! Aye! I’m so glad I scooped you Baudelairesout of the stream!”“I’m glad, too,” Fiona said, smiling shyly at Klaus.“I couldn’t be happier about it,” Phil said, serving two more bowls of chowder. “Ithought I’d never see you Baudelaires again, and here you are! All three of you havegrown up so nicely, even though you’ve been constantly pursued by an evil villainand falsely accused of numerous crimes!”“You certainly have had a harrowing journey,” Fiona said, using a word whichhere means “frantic and extremely distressing.”“I’m afraid we may have another harrowing journey ahead of us,” Klaus said.“When Captain Widdershins was talking about the philosopher who said that all oflife is just shadows in a cave, I realized at once what that oval must be.”“A philosopher?” the captain asked. “That’s impossible! Aye!”“Absurdio,” Sunny said, which meant “Philosophers live at the tops of mountainsor in ivory towers, not underneath the sea.”“I think Klaus means a cave,” Violet said quickly, rather than translating. “Theoval must mark the entrance to a cave.”“It begins right near Anwhistle Aquatics,” Klaus said, pointing to the chart. “Thecurrents of the ocean would have brought the sugar bowl right to the entrance, andthen the currents of the cave would have carried it far inside.”“But the chart only shows the entrance to the cave,” Violet said. “We don’t knowwhat it’s like inside. I wish Quigley was here. With his knowledge of maps, he mightknow the path of the cave.”“But Quigley isn’t here,” Klaus said gently. “I guess we’ll be traveling inuncharted waters.”“That’ll be fun,” Phil said.The Baudelaires looked at one another. The phrase “uncharted waters” does notonly refer to underground locations that do not appear on charts. It is a phrase thatcan describe any place that is unknown, such as a forest in which every explorer hasbeen lost, or one’s own future, which cannot be known until it arrives. You don’thave to be an optimist, like Phil, to find uncharted waters fun. I myself have spentmany an enjoyable afternoon exploring the uncharted waters of a book I have notread, or a hiding place I discovered in a sideboard, a word which here means “a pieceof furniture in the dining room, with shelves and drawers to hold various usefulitems.” But the Baudelaires had already spent a great deal of time exploringuncharted waters, from the uncharted waters of Lake Lachrymose and its terrifyingcreatures, to the uncharted waters of secrets found in the Library of Records atHeimlich Hospital, to the uncharted waters of Count Olaf’s wickedness, which weredeeper and darker than any waters of the sea. After all of their uncharted traveling,the Baudelaire orphans were not in the mood to explore any uncharted waters, andcould not share Phil’s optimistic enthusiasm.“It won’t be the first time the Queequeg’s been in uncharted waters,” CaptainWiddershins said. “Aye – most of this sea was first explored by V.F.D. submarines.”“We thought V.F.D. stood for Volunteer Fire Department,” Violet said. “Whywould a fire department spend so much time underwater?”“V.F.D. isn’t just a fire department,” the captain said, but his voice was very quiet,as if he were talking more to himself than to his crew. “Aye – it started that way. Butthe volunteers were interested in every such thing! I was one of the first to sign up forVoluntary Fish Domestication. That was one of the missions of Anwhistle Aquatics.Aye! I spent four long years training salmon to swim upstream and search for forestfires. That was when you were very young, Fiona, but your brother worked rightalongside me. You should have seen him sneaking extra worms to his favorites! Aye!The program was a modest success! Aye! But then Café Salmonella came along, andtook our entire fleet away. The Snicket siblings fought as best they could. Aye!Historians call it the Snicket Snickersnee! Aye! But as the poet wrote, ‘Too manywaiters turn out to be traitors.’ ”“The Snicket siblings?” Klaus was quick to ask.“Aye,” the captain said. “Three of them, each as noble as the next. Aye! KitSnicket helped build this submarine! Aye! Jacques Snicket proved that the RoyalGardens Fire was arson! Aye! And the third sibling, with the marmosets –”“You Baudelaires knew Jacques Snicket, didn’t you?” asked Fiona, who wasn’tshy about interrupting her stepfather.“Very briefly,” Violet said, “and we recently found a message addressed to him.That’s how we found about Thursday’s gathering, at the last safe place.”“Nobody would write a message to Jacques,” Captain Widdershins said. “Aye!Jacques is dead!”“Etartsigam!” Sunny said, and her siblings quickly explained that she meant “Theinitials were J.S.”“It must be some other J.S.,” Fiona said.“Speaking of mysterious initials,” Klaus said, “I wonder what G.G. stands for. Ifwe knew what the cave was called, we might have a better idea of our journey.”“Aye!” Captain Widdershins said. “Let’s guess! Great Glen! Aye! Green Glade!Aye! Glamorous Glacier! Aye! Gleeful Gameroom! Aye! Glass Goulash! Aye! GothicGovernment! Aye! Grandma’s Gingivitis! Aye! Girl Getting-up-from-table! Aye!”Indeed, the captain’s stepdaughter had stood up, wiped her mouth with a napkinembroidered with a portrait of Herman Melville, and walked over to a sideboard tuckedinto a far corner. Fiona opened a cabinet and revealed a few shelves stuffed with books.“Yesterday I started reading a new addition to my mycological library,” she said,standing on tiptoes to reach the shelf. “I just remembered reading something thatmight come in handy.”The captain fingered his mustache in astonishment. “You and your mushrooms andmolds!” the captain said. “I thought I’d never live to see your mycological studies beput to good use,” and I’m sorry to say he was right.“Let’s see,” Fiona said, paging through a thick book entitled Mushroom Minutiae ,a word which here means “obscure facts.” “It was in the table of contents – that’s allI’ve read so far. It was about halfway through.” She brought the book over to thetable, and ran a finger down the table of contents while the Baudelaires leaned overto see. “Chapter Thirty-Six, The Yeast of Beasts. Chapter Thirty-Seven, MorelBehavior in a Free Society. Chapter Thirty-Eight, Fungible Mold, Moldable Fungi.Chapter Thirty-Nine, Visitable Fungal Ditches. Chapter Forty, The Gorgonian Grotto– there!”“Grotto?” Sunny asked.“ ‘Grotto’ is another word for ‘cave’,” Klaus explained, as Fiona flipped ahead toChapter Forty.“ ‘The Gorgonian Grotto,’ ” she read, “ ‘located in propinquity to AnwhistleAquatics, has appropriately wraithlike nomenclature, with roots in Grecianmythology, as this conical cavern is fecund with what is perhaps the bugaboo of theentire mycological pantheon.’ ”“Aye! I told you that book was too difficult!” Captain Widdershins said. “A youngchild can’t unlock that sort of vocabulary.”“It’s a very complicated prose style,” Klaus admitted, “but I think I know what itsays. The Gorgonian Grotto was named after something in Greek mythology.”“A Gorgon,” Violet said. “Like that woman with snakes instead of hair.”“She could turn people into stone,” Fiona said.“She was probably nice, when you got to know her,” Phil said.“Aye! I think I went to school with such a woman!” the captain said.“I don’t think she was a real person,” Klaus said. “I think she was legendary. Thebook says it’s appropriate that the grotto is named after a legendary monster, becausethere’s a sort of monster living in a cave – a bugaboo.”“Bugaboo?” Sunny asked.“A bugaboo can be any kind of monster,” Klaus said. “We could call Count Olaf abugaboo, if we felt so inclined.”“I’d rather not speak of him at all,” Violet said.“This bugaboo is a fungus of some sort,” Fiona said, and continued reading fromMushroom Minutiae . “ ‘The Medusoid Mycelium has a unique conducive strategy ofwaxing and waning: first a brief dormant cycle, in which the mycelium is nearlyinvisible, and then a precipitated flowering into speckled stalks and caps of suchintense venom that it is fortunate the grotto serves as quarantine.’ ”“I didn’t understand all of that scientific terminology,” Klaus said.“I did,” Fiona said. “There are three main parts to a mushroom. One is the cap,which is shaped like an umbrella, and the second is the stalk, which holds theumbrella up. Those are the parts you can see.”“There’s part of a mushroom you can’t see?” Violet asked.“It’s called the mycelium,” Fiona replied. “It’s like a bunch of thread, branchingout underneath the ground. Some mushrooms have mycelia that go on for miles.”“How do you spell ‘mycelium’?” Klaus asked, reaching into his waterproofpocket. “I want to write this down in my commonplace book.” Fiona pointed theword out on the page.“The Medusoid Mycelium waxes and wanes,” she said, “which means that thecaps and stalks spring up from the mycelium, and then wither away, and then springup again. It sounds like you wouldn’t know the mushrooms are there until they pokeup out of the ground.”The Baudelaires pictured a group of mushrooms suddenly springing up under theirfeet, and felt a bit queasy, as if they already knew of the dreadful encounter theywould soon have with this terrible fungus.“That sounds unnerving,” Violet said.“It gets worse,” Fiona said. “The mushrooms are exceedingly poisonous. Listen tothis: ‘As the poet says, ”A single spore has such grim power / That you may diewithin the hour.“ ‘ A spore is like a seed – if it has a place to grow, it will becomeanother mycelium. But if someone eats it, or even breathes it in, it can cause death.”“Within the hour?” Klaus said. “That’s a fast-acting poison.”“Most fungal poisons have cures,” Fiona said. “The poison of a deadly fungus canbe the source of some wonderful medicines. I’ve been working on a few myself. Butthis book says it’s lucky the grotto acts as quarantine.”“Quarwa?” Sunny asked.“Quarantine is when something dangerous is isolated, so the danger cannotspread,” Klaus explained. “Because the Medusoid Mycelium is in uncharted waters,very few people have been poisoned. If someone brought even one spore to dry land,who knows what would happen?”“We won’t find out!” Captain Widdershins said. “We’re not going to take anyspores! Aye! We’re just going to grab the sugar bowl and be on our way! Aye! I’ll seta course right now!” The captain bounded up from the table and began climbing therope ladder to the Queequeg’s controls.“Are you sure we should continue our mission?” Fiona asked her stepfather,shutting the book. “It sounds very dangerous.”“Dangerous? Aye! Dangerous and scary! Aye! Scary and difficult! Aye! Difficultand mysterious! Aye! Mysterious and uncomfortable! Aye! Uncomfortable and risky!Aye! Risky and noble! Aye!”“I suppose the fungus can’t hurt us if we’re inside the submarine,” Phil said,struggling to remain optimistic.“Even if it could!” the captain cried, standing at the top of the rope ladder andgesturing dramatically as he delivered an impassioned oratory, a phrase which heremeans “emotional speech that the Baudelaires found utterly convincing, even if theydid not quite agree with every word.”“The amount of treachery in this world is enormous!” he cried. “Aye! Think of thecrafts we saw on the sonar screen! Think of Count Olaf’s enormous submarine, andthe even more enormous one that chased it away! Aye! ”There’s always somethingmore enormous and more terrifying on our tails! Aye! And so many of the noblesubmarines are gone! Aye! You think the Herman Melville suits are the only nobleuniforms in the world? There used to be volunteers with P G. Wodehouse on theiruniforms, and Carl Van Vechten. There was Comyns and Cleary and Archy andMehitabel. But now volunteers are scarce! So the best we can do is one small noblething! Aye! Like retrieving the sugar bowl from the Gorgonian Grotto, no matter howgrim it sounds! Aye! Remember my personal philosophy! He who hesitates is lost!”“Or she!” Fiona said.“Or she,” the captain agreed. “Aye?”“Aye!” Violet cried.“Aye!” Klaus shouted.“Aye!” Sunny shrieked.“Hooray!” Phil yelled.Captain Widdershins peered down in annoyance at Phil, whom he would havepreferred say “Aye!” along with everyone else. “Cookie!” he ordered. “Do the dishes!The rest of you get some shut-eye! Aye!”“Shut-eye?” Violet asked.“Aye! It means ‘sleep’!” the captain explained.“We know what it means,” Klaus said. “We’re just surprised that we’re supposedto sleep through the mission.”“It’ll take some time to get to the cave!” the captain said. “I want you four to bewell-rested in case you’re needed! Now go to your barracks! Aye!”It is one of life’s bitterest truths that bedtime so often arrives just when things arereally getting interesting. The Baudelaires were not particularly in the mood to tossand turn in the Queequeg’s barracks – a word which here means “a type of bedroomthat is usually uncomfortable” – as the submarine drew closer and closer to themysterious grotto and its indispensable item, a phrase which here means “the sugarbowl, although the children did not know why it was so important.”But as they followed Fiona out of the Main Hall and back down the corridor, pastthe plaque advertising the captain’s personal philosophy, the door to the supply room,and an uncountable number of leaky metal pipes, the siblings felt quite tired, and bythe time Fiona opened a door to reveal a small, green-lit room stacked with saggybunk beds, the three children were already yawning.A Series of Unfortunate Events 11 - TheGrim GrottoPerhaps it was because of their long, exhausting day, which had begun on the icysummit of Mount Fraught , but Violet didn’t ponder one single mechanical idea asshe got into bed, as she usually did before she went to sleep. Klaus scarcely had timeto put his glasses on a small bedside table before he nodded off, a phrase which heremeans “fell asleep without considering even one of the books he had recently read.”Sunny curled up on a pillow, and she didn’t waste one moment dreaming up newrecipes – preferably entrées that were less mushy than chowder, as she still enjoyedbiting things as much as she did when she was a baby, before she was dreamingherself. And even Fiona, whose bedtime habits are less familiar to me than that of theBaudelaires’, put her glasses next to Klaus’s and was asleep in moments.The whirring engine of the Queequeg sent them deeper and deeper into slumberfor several hours, and they probably would have slept much longer if the childrenhadn’t been awakened by a terrible – and terribly familiar – noise. It was a loud,unnerving scraping, like fingernails against a chalkboard, and the Baudelaires werealmost shaken out of bed as the entire submarine rattled.“What was that?” Violet asked.“We hit something,” Fiona said grimly, grabbing her glasses in one hand and herdiving helmet in the other. “We’d better see what the situation is.”The Baudelaires nodded in agreement, and hurried out of the barracks and backdown the corridor. There was an unnerving splashing sound coming from a few of thetubes, and Klaus had to pick up Sunny to carry her over several large puddles.“Is the submarine collapsing?” Klaus asked.“We’ll know soon enough,” Fiona said, and she was correct.In moments she’d led the Baudelaires Back into the Main Hall, where Phil and thecaptain were standing at the table, staring out the porthole into black nothingness.They each had grim expressions on their faces, although Phil was trying to smile atthe same time.“It’s good you got some rest,” the optimist said. “There’s a real adventure ahead ofyou.”“I’m glad you brought your diving helmets,” Captain Widdershins said. “Aye!”“Why?” Violet asked. “Is the Queequeg seriously damaged?”“Aye!” the captain said. “I mean, no. The submarine is damaged, but she’ll hold –for now. We reached the Gorgonian Grotto about an hour ago, and I was able to steerus inside with no problem. But the cave got narrower and narrower as wemaneuvered further and further inside.”“The book said the grotto was conical,” Klaus said. “That means it’s shaped like acone.”“Aye!” the captain said. “The entrance was the wide end of the cone, but now it’stoo narrow for the submarine to travel. If we want to retrieve the sugar bowl we’llhave to use something smaller.”“Periscope?” Sunny asked.“No,” Captain Widdershins replied. “A child.”C H A P T E RSix“ You youngsters look very spiffy in those helmets!” Phil said, with a wide,optimistic smile on his face. “I know you must be a little nervous, but I’m sure all ofyou children will rise to the occasion!”The Baudelaire orphans sighed, and looked at one another from inside their divinghelmets. When someone tells you that you will rise to the occasion, it means theythink you’ll be strong or skillful enough for a particular situation, but Violet, Klaus,and Sunny did not know if they could rise to the occasion when they were so afraidof sinking. Although they had dragged their helmets back and forth to the barracks,they hadn’t realized how awkward they were until they had strapped them onto theirwaterproof uniforms. Violet did not like the fact that she couldn’t reach through thehelmet to tie up her hair, in case she needed to invent something on the spur of themoment, a phrase which here means “while traveling through the Gorgonian Grotto.”Klaus found that it was difficult to see, as the small circular window in his helmetinterfered with his glasses. And Sunny was not at all happy about curling up insideher helmet, shutting the tiny door, and being carried by her sister as if she were avolleyball instead of a young girl.When they had put their uniforms on just a few hours earlier, the three siblingsthought that the waterproof stilts had fit them like a glove. But now, as they followedCaptain Widdershins out of the Main Hall and down the damp and dripping corridor,the children feared that the uniforms fit more like an anchor, dragging them down tothe depths of the sea.“Don’t worry,” Fiona said, as though she were reading the Baudelaires’ minds. Shegave the siblings a small smile from behind her diving helmet. “I assure you thatthese suits are completely safe – safe, but uncomfortable.”“As long as we can breathe,” Violet said, “I don’t care how uncomfortable theyare.”“Of course you’ll be able to breathe!” the captain said. “Aye! The oxygen systemsin your helmets provide plenty of air for a short journey! Of course, if there’s anyopportunity to remove your helmets, you should do so! Aye! That way the system canrecharge itself, and you’ll have more air.”“Where would we find an opportunity to remove our helmets in an underwatercave?” Klaus asked.“Who knows?” Captain Widdershins said. “Aye! You’ll be in uncharted waters. Iwish I could go myself! Aye! But the grotto has become too narrow!”“Hewenkella,” Sunny said. Her voice was muffled inside the helmet, and it wasdifficult for even her siblings to know what she was saying. “I think my sister iscurious about how we’ll be able to see our way,” Violet said. “Does the Queequeghave any waterproof flashlights?”“Flashlights won’t help you,” the captain replied. “Aye! It’s too dark! Aye! Butyou won’t need to see your way. Aye! If Klaus’s calculations are correct, the tide willjust push you along. Aye! You won’t even have to swim! You can just sit there, andyou’ll drift right to the sugar bowl!”“That seems like an awfully passive way to travel,” Fiona said.“Aye!” her stepfather agreed. “It does! But there is no other solution! And weshould not hesitate!” He stopped and pointed to his plaque. “He or she who hesitatesis lost!” he reminded them.“It’s a little hard not to hesitate,” Violet said, “before doing something like this.”“It’s not too late to draw straws!” the captain said. “Aye! You don’t all have to gotogether!”“The three of us prefer not to be separated,” Klaus said. “We’ve had too muchtrouble that way.”“I should think you’ve had too much trouble in any case!” the captain said. “Aye!”“The Baudelaires are right, Stepfather,” Fiona said. “This way makes the mostsense. We may need Violet’s mechanical expertise, or Klaus’s knowledge of the tidalcharts. And Sunny’s size may come in handy, if the grotto gets even smaller.”“Ulp,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “I don’t like the idea of driftingby myself in a diving helmet.”“What about you, Fiona?” the captain asked. “Aye! You could stay here with me!”“My skills might be needed as well,” Fiona said quietly, and the Baudelairesshuddered, trying not to think about the Medusoid Mycelium and its poisonousspores.“Aye!” Captain Widdershins admitted, and smoothed his mustache with onegloved finger. “Well, I’m going to tell V.F.D. all about this! Aye! All four of youvolunteers will receive citations for bravery!”The Baudelaires looked at one another as best they could through the smallcircular windows. A citation for bravery is nothing more than a piece of paper statingthat you have been courageous at some time, and such citations have not been knownto be very useful when confronted by danger, whether deep underwater, or, as theBaudelaires would eventually learn, high up in the air. Anyone can write up a citationfor bravery, and I have even been known to write one for myself from time to time, inorder to keep my spirits up in the middle of a treacherous journey. The three siblingswere more interested in surviving their voyage through the Gorgonian Grotto than inreceiving a written statement complimenting them on their courage, but they knewCaptain Widdershins was trying to keep their spirits up as he led them down thecorridor and into the room where they had first encountered the captain of theQueequeg .“To get into the water,” the captain said, “you just climb up that same ladder andgive a holler when you’re at the hatch. Then I’ll activate a valve down here, so thesubmarine won’t flood with water when you open it. Then, as I said, you’ll just letthe current carry you. You should end up in the same place as the sugar bowl.”“And you still won’t tell us why the sugar bowl is important?” Violet couldn’t helpasking.“It’s not the sugar bowl,” Captain Widdershins said, “it’s what’s inside it. Aye!I’ve already said too much! Aye! There are secrets in this world too terrible for youngpeople to know! Just think – if you knew about the sugar bowl and you somehow fellinto Count Olaf’s clutches, there’s no telling what he’d do! Aye!”“But look on the bright side,” Phil pointed out. “Whatever terrible things may belurking in that cave, you won’t find Count Olaf. There’s no way that octopus submarinecould fit!”“Aye!” the captain agreed. “But we’ll watch for him on the sonar, just in case!We’ll watch you too! Aye! We’ll be right here watching you the entire time! Theoxygen systems in your helmets make enough noise that you’ll appear as four tinydots on our screen! Now, off you go! Good luck!”“We’ll be wishing you the best!” Phil said.The adults gave each of the children a pat on the helmet, and without any furtherhesitation, off went the Baudelaire children with Fiona behind them, following theladder up to the hatch through which they had come aboard. The four volunteers werequiet as they made their way up, until Violet reached up with one hand – the otherhand was clutching Sunny’s helmet – and grabbed the handle that opened the hatch.“We’re ready!” she called down, although she did not feel ready at all.“Aye!” replied the voice of the captain. “I’m activating the valve now! Wait fiveseconds and then open the hatch! Aye! But don’t hesitate! Aye! He who hesitates islost! Aye! Or she! Aye! Good luck! Aye! Good fortune! Aye! Good journey! Aye!Good-bye!”There was a distant clanging, presumably the sound of the valve activating, andthe four children waited for five seconds, just as you may wish to wait a few secondsyourself, so all thoughts of the Baudelaires’ predicament will vanish from yourimagination so that you will not be weeping as you learn several boring facts aboutthe water cycle.The water cycle, to review, consists of three key phenomena – evaporation,precipitation, and collection – which are all equally boring and thus equally lessupsetting than what happened to the Baudelaires when Violet opened the hatch andthe icy, dark waters of the sea rushed into the passageway. If you were to read whathappened to them in the moments that followed, you would find yourself unable tosleep as you wept into your pillow and pictured the children all alone in that grimgrotto, drifting slowly to the end of the cavern, and yet if you read about the watercycle you would find yourself unable to stay awake, due to the boring description ofthe process by which water is distributed around the world, and so as a courtesy toyou I will continue this book in a way that is best for all concerned.The water cycle consists of three phenomena – evaporation, precipitation, andcollection- which are the three phenomena that make up what is known as “the watercycle.” Evaporation, the first of these phenomena, is the process of water turning intovapor and eventually forming clouds, such as those found in cloudy skies, or oncloudy days, or even cloudy nights. These clouds are formed by a phenomenonknown as “evaporation,” which is the first of three phenomena that make up thewater cycle. Evaporation, the first of these three, is simply a term for a process bywhich water turns into vapor and eventually forms clouds. Clouds can be recognizedby their appearance, usually on cloudy days or nights, when they can be seen incloudy skies. The name for the process by which clouds are formed – by water,which turns into vapor and becomes part of the formation known as “clouds” – is“evaporation,” the first phenomenon in the three phenomena that make up the cycleof water, otherwise known as “the water cycle,” and surely you must be asleep bynow and so can be spared the horrifying details of the Baudelaires’ journey.The instant Violet opened the hatch, the passageway flooded with water, and thechildren drifted out of the submarine and into the blackness of the Gorgonian Grotto.The Baudelaires knew, of course, that the Queequeg had entered an underwater cave,but still they were unprepared for how very dark and cold it was. Sunlight had notreached the waters of the grotto for quite some time – not since Anwhistle Aquaticswas still up and running, a phrase which here means “not destroyed under suspiciouscircumstances” – and the water felt like a freezing black glove, encircling thechildren with its chilly fingers.As Klaus had predicted after studying the tidal charts, the currents of the cavecarried the youngsters away from the submarine, but in the darkness it wasimpossible to see how fast or far they were going. Within moments the fourvolunteers lost sight of the Queequeg , and then of one another.Had the grotto been equipped with some sort of lighting system, as it once had, thechildren could have seen a number of things. They might have noticed the mosaic onthe grotto floor – thousands and thousands of colorful tiles, depicting noble eventsfrom the early history of a secret organization, and portraits of famous writers,scientists, artists, musicians, philosophers, and chefs who had inspired theorganization ‘s members. They might have seen an enormous, rusted pumpingmachine, which was able to drain the entire grotto, or flood it with seawater again, inmere minutes. They might have gazed upward and seen the sharp angles of variousVertical Flame Diversions and other secret passageways that once led all the way upto the marine research center and rhetorical advice service, or even spotted the personwho was using one of the passageways now, and probably for the last time, as shemade her difficult and dark way toward the Queequeg . But instead, all the childrencould see through their small circular windows was darkness.The Baudelaires had seen darkness before, of course – darkness in secretpassageways and tunnels, darkness in abandoned buildings and empty streets,darkness in the eyes of wicked people, and even darkness in other caves. But neverbefore had the orphans felt so completely in the dark as they did now. They did notknow where they were, although once Violet felt, very briefly, her feet brush upagainst something very smooth, like a tile fitted firmly against the ground. Theycould not tell where they were going, although after a while Klaus had a suspicionthat the current had spun him so he was traveling upside down. And they could nottell when they would arrive, although from time to time Sunny saw, through herdiving helmet, a tiny dot of light, much like the tiny dots Captain Widdershins saidthey would appear as on the sonar screen of his submarine.The Baudelaires drifted along in cold, dark silence, feeling afraid and confused andstrangely lonely, and when their journey finally ended, it was so sudden it felt as if theyhad fallen into a deep, deep sleep, as deep and dark as the cavern itself, and now werebeing jolted awake.At first, it sounded as if a bushel of broken glass were raining down on thechildren, but then the children realized they had drifted to the surface of the water,and in one curling, fluid motion, the tide pushed them onto something that felt like abeach, and the three siblings found themselves crawling on a slope of dark, wet sand.“Klaus?” Violet called through her helmet. “Are you there? What’s happened?”“I don’t know,” Klaus replied. He could just barely see his sister crawlingalongside him. “We couldn’t have reached the surface of the sea – we were very, verydeep. Is Sunny with you?”“Yes,” Sunny said, from inside her helmet. “Fiona?”“I’m here,” came the voice of the mycologist. “But where are we? How can westill be below the surface of the sea, without any water around us?”“I’m not sure,” Klaus said, “but it must be possible. After all, a submarine can bebelow the sea and stay dry.”“Are we on another submarine?” Violet asked.“I dunno,” Sunny said, and frowned in her helmet. “Look!”The elder Baudelaires looked, although it took them a few moments to realizewhat Sunny was talking about, as they could not see what direction their sister waspointing. But in a moment they saw two small lights, a short distance from where thevolunteers were crawling. Hesitantly, they stood up – except for Sunny, whoremained curled up in her helmet – and saw that the lights were coming from a placemany lights come from: lamps.A short distance away, standing against the wall, were three floorlamps, each witha letter on its shade. The first lamp had a large V, and the second had an F. The thirdfloorlamp had burnt out, and it was too dim to read the shade, but the children knew,of course, that it must have had a D.“What is this place?” Fiona asked, but as the children stepped closer they couldsee what kind of place it was.As they had suspected, the currents of the Gorgonian Grotto had carried them to abeach, but it was a beach contained in a narrow room. The youngsters stood at the topof the slope of sand and peered at this small, dim room, with smooth tiled walls thatlooked damp and slippery, and a sand floor covered in an assortment of small objects,some in piles and some half-buried in the sand. The children could see bottles, somestill with their corks and caps, and some cans still intact from their journey. Therewere a few books, their pages bloated as if soaked in water, and a few small casesthat looked locked. There was a roller skate, turned upside down, and a deck of cardssitting in two piles, as if someone were about to shuffle them. Here and there were afew pens, sticking out of the sand like porcupine quills, and there were many moreobjects the children could not identify in the gloom.“Where are we?” Fiona asked. “Why isn’t this place full of water?”Klaus looked up, but could not see past a few feet. “This must be a passage ofsome sort,” Klaus said, “straight up to dry land – an island, maybe, or maybe itcurves to the shore.”“Anwhistle Aquatics,” Violet said thoughtfully. “We must be underneath its ruins.”“Oxo?” Sunny asked, which meant “Does that mean we can breathe without ourhelmets?”“I think so,” Klaus said, and then carefully removed his helmet, an action forwhich I would have given him a citation for bravery. “Yes,” he said. “We can breathe.Everybody take off their helmets – that way, our oxygen systems will recharge.”“But what is this place?” Fiona asked again, removing her helmet. “Why wouldanybody build a room way down here?”“It looks like it’s been abandoned,” Violet said. “It’s full of junk.”“Someone must come to change the light-bulbs,” Klaus pointed out. “Besides, allthis junk was washed up here by the tide, like us.”“And like sugar bowl,” Sunny said.“Of course,” Fiona said, looking down at the objects in the sand. “It must be heresomeplace.”“Let’s find it and get out of here,” Violet said. “I don’t like this place.”“Mission,” Sunny said, which meant “Once we find the sugar bowl, our work hereis done.”“Not quite,” Klaus said. “We’ll still have to return to the Queequeg against thecurrent, I might add. Looking for the sugar bowl is only half the battle.”Everyone nodded in agreement, and the four volunteers spread out and began toexamine the objects in the sand. Saying that something is half the battle is like sayingsomething is half a sandwich, because it is dangerous to announce that something ishalf the battle when the much more difficult part might still be waiting in the wings, aphrase which here means “coming up more quickly than you’d like.” You might thinklearning how to boil water is half the battle, only to learn that making a poached eggis much trickier than you thought and that the entire battle would be much moredifficult and dangerous than you ever would have imaginedThe Baudelaires and their mycologist friend thought that looking for the sugarbowl was half the battle, but I’m sorry to tell you that they were wrong, and it islucky that you fell asleep earlier, during my description of the water cycle, so youwill not learn about the other half of the Baudelaires’ battle, and the ghastly poisonthey would end up battling not long after their search through the sand.“I’ve found a box of rubber bands,” Violet said, after a few minutes, “and adoorknob, two mattress springs, half a bottle of vinegar, and a paring knife, but nosugar bowl.”“I’ve found an earring, a broken clipboard, a book of poetry, half a stapler, andthree swizzle sticks,” Klaus said, “but no sugar bowl.”“Three can soup,” Sunny said, “jar peanut butter, box crackers, pesto, wasabi, lomein. But nadasuchre.”“This is harder than I thought,” Klaus said. “What have you found, Fiona?” Fionadid not answer. “Fiona?” Klaus asked again, and the Baudelaires turned to look ather.But the mycologist was not looking at the siblings. She was looking past them, andher eyes were wide with fear behind her triangular glasses.“Fiona?” Klaus said, sounding a bit worried. “What have you found?”Fiona swallowed, and pointed back down at the slope of sand. “Mycelium,” she saidfinally, in a faint whisper, and the Baudelaires turned to see that she had spoken the truth.Sprouting out of the sand, quickly and silently, were the stalks and caps of theMedusoid Mycelium, the fungus Fiona had described back on the Queequeg .The invisible threads of the mycelium, according to her mycological book, waxedand waned, and had been waning when the volunteers drifted ashore, which meantthat the mushrooms had been hiding underground when the children had arrived atthis strange room. But now, as time passed, they were waxing, and sprouting up allover the beach and even along the smooth, tiled walls.At first just a handful were visible – each one a dark, gray color, with blacksplotches on the caps as if they were spattered with ink – and then more and more,like a silent, deadly crowd that had gathered on the beach and was staring blindly atthe terrified children. The mushrooms only ventured halfway up the slope of sand, soit seemed that the poisonous fungus was not going to engulf them – not yet, anyway.But as the mycelium continued to wax, the entire beach sprouted in sinistermushrooms, and until it waned the Baudelaires had to huddle on the sand, in the lightof the floorlamps, and stare back at the venomous mycological crowd.More and more mushrooms appeared, crowding the strange shore and piling up ontop of one another as if they were pushing and shoving to get a good look at thetrapped and frightened children.Looking for the sugar bowl may have been half the battle, but now the Baudelaireorphans were trapped, and that half was much, much more troubling.The word “lousy,” like the word “volunteer,” the word “fire,” the word“department,” and many other words found in dictionaries and other importantdocuments, has a number of different definitions depending on the exactcircumstances in which it is used. There is the common definition of the word“lousy,” meaning “bad,” and this definition of “lousy” has described many things inmy history of the Baudelaire orphans, from the sinister smells of Lousy Lane, alongwhich the children traveled long ago, to their lousy journey up and down theMortmain Mountains in search of the V.F.D. headquarters. There is the medicaldefinition of the word “lousy,” meaning “infested with lice,” and this definition of“lousy” has not appeared in my work at all, although as Count Olaf’s hygiene getsworse and worse I may find occasion to use it. And then there is a somewhat obscuredefinition of the word “lousy,” meaning “abundantly supplied,” the way Count Olafis lousy with treacherous plans, or the Queequeg is lousy with metal pipes, or theentire world is lousy with unfathomable secrets, and it is this definition that theBaudelaire orphans pondered, as they huddled with Fiona underneath the mysteriousfloorlamps of the Gorgonian Grotto, and watched more and more mushrooms sproutfrom the sand.As their surroundings became lousy with the Medusoid Mycelium , the childrenthought of all the other things in their lives with which they were abundantlysupplied. The children’s lives were lousy with mystery, from the mysteries of V.F.D.to the mysteries of their own futures, with each mystery crowding the others like thestalks and caps of the poisonous fungi. Their lives were lousy with danger, from thedangers they had encountered above mountains and underneath buildings, to thedangers they had faced inside the city and out in the hinterlands, from the dangers ofvillainous people to the dangers of kind people who did not know any better. Andtheir lives were lousy with lousiness, from terrible people to horrible meals, fromterrifying locations to horrifying circumstances, and from dreadful inconveniences toinconvenient dreads, so that it seemed that their lives would always be lousy, lousywith lousy days and lousy with lousy nights, even if all of the lousy things withwhich their lives were lousy became less lousy, and less lousy with lousiness, overthe lousy course of each lousy-with-lousiness moment, and with each new lousymushroom, the cave lousier and lousier with lousiness, it was almost too much for theBaudelaire orphans to hear.“Lousy,” Sunny said.“This is not good news,” Klaus agreed. “Fiona, do you think we’ve been poisonedalready?”“No,” Fiona said firmly. “The spores shouldn’t reach us here. As long as we stayhere at the far end of the cavern, and the mushrooms don’t advance any further, we shouldbe safe.”“It looks like they’ve stopped advancing,” Violet said, pointing at the line of graymushrooms, and the other volunteers saw that she was right. There were still newmushrooms popping up, but the fungus didn’t seem to be getting any closer to thefour children.“I guess the mycelium has only grown that far,” Fiona said. “We’re very lucky.”“I don’t feel very lucky,” Klaus said. “I feel trapped. How will we get out ofhere?”“There’s only one way,” Violet said. “The only path back to the Queequeg leadsthrough those mushrooms.”“If we go through the mushrooms,” Fiona said, “we’ll most likely be poisoned.One spore could easily slip through our suits.”“Antidote?” Sunny asked.“I might find the recipe for a cure,” Fiona replied, “someplace in my mycologicallibrary. But we don’t want to take that chance. We’ll have to exit another way.”For a moment, all four children looked up, into the blackness of the passage abovetheir heads. Violet frowned, and put one hand on the damp and slippery tiles of thewall. With the other hand she reached into the waterproof pocket of her uniform, anddrew out a ribbon to tie up her hair“Can we go out that way?” Klaus asked. “Can you invent something to help usclimb up that passageway?”“Tingamebob,” Sunny said, which meant “There’s plenty of materials here in thesand.”“Materials aren’t the problem,” Violet said, and peered up into the blackness.“We’re far below the surface of the water. It must be miles and miles to the surface.Even the best climbing device would wear out over the journey, and if it did we’d fallall the way down.”“But someone must use that passageway, Klaus said. ”Otherwise it wouldn’t havebeen built.”“It doesn’t matter,” Fiona said. “We can’t go out that way. We need to get to theQueequeg . Otherwise, my stepfather will wonder what’s become of us. Eventuallyhe’d put on his diving helmet and go investigate…”“And the tide would carry him right into the poisonous fungus,” Klaus finished.“Fiona’s right. Even if we could climb all the way up, it’d be the wrong way to go.”“But what else can we do?” Violet said, her voice rising. “We can’t spend the restof our lives in this miserable place!”Fiona looked at the mushrooms and sighed. “ Mushroom Minutiae said that thisfungus waxes and wanes. Right now it’s waxing. We’ll have to wait until it wanesagain, and then run quickly over the sand and swim back down to the submarine.”“But how long will it be until it starts waning?” Klaus said. “I don’t know,” Fionaadmitted. “It could be just a few minutes, or a few hours. It could even be a fewdays.”“A few days?” Violet said. “In a few days your stepfather will give up on us! In afew days we’ll miss the V.F.D. gathering! We can’t wait a few days!”“It’s our only choice,” Klaus said, putting a comforting hand on Violet’s shoulder.“We can wait until the mushrooms disappear, or we can find ourselves poisoned.”“That’s not a choice at all,” Violet replied bitterly.“It’s a Hobson’s choice,” Klaus said. “Remember?”The eldest Baudelaire looked down at her brother and gave him a small smile. “OfCourse I remember,” she said.“Mamasan,” Sunny said. Her siblings looked down at her, and Violet picked herup in her arms.“Who’s Hobson?” Fiona asked. “What was his choice?”Klaus smiled. “Thomas Hobson lived in Britain in the seventeenth century,” hesaid. “He was in charge of a stable, and according to legend, he always told hiscustomers they had a choice: they could take the horse closest to the door, or no horseat all.”“That’s not really a choice,” Fiona said.Violet smiled. “Precisely,” she said. “A Hobson ‘s choice is something that’s not achoice at all. It’s an expression our mother used to use. She’d say, ‘I’ll give you aHobson’s choice, Violet – you can clean your room or I will stand in the doorway andsing your least favorite song over and over.’ ” Fiona grinned. “What was your leastfavorite song?” she asked.“ ‘Row, Row, Row Your Boat,’ ” Violet said. “I hate the part about life being but adream.”“She’d offer me the Hobson’s choice of doing the dishes or reading the poetry ofEdgar Guest,” Klaus said. “He’s my absolute least favorite poet.”“Bath or pink dress,” Sunny said.“Did your mother always joke around like that?” Fiona asked. “Mine used to getawfully mad if I didn’t clean my room.”“Our mother would get mad, too,” Klaus said. “Remember, Violet, when we leftthe window of the library open, and that night it rained?”“She really flew off the handle,” Violet said, using a phrase which here means“became extremely angry.”“We spoiled an atlas that she said was irreplaceable.”“You should have heard her yell,” Klaus said. “Our father came down from hisstudy to see what was the matter.”“And then he started yelling, too,” Violet said, and the Baudelaires paused andlooked at one another uncomfortably.Everyone yells, of course, from time to time, but the Baudelaire children did notlike to think about their parents yelling, particularly now that they were no longeraround to apologize or explain themselves. It is often difficult to admit that someoneyou love is not perfect, or to consider aspects of a person that are less than admirable.To the Baudelaires it felt almost as if they had drawn a line after their parents died– a secret line in their memories, separating all the wonderful things about theBaudelaire parents from the things that perhaps were not quite so wonderful. Sincethe fire, whenever they thought of their parents, the Baudelaires never stepped overthis secret line, preferring to ponder the best moments the family had together ratherthan any of the times when they had fought, or been unfair or selfish.But now, suddenly, in the gloom of the Gorgonian Grotto, the siblings hadstumbled across that line and found themselves thinking of that angry afternoon inthe library, and in moments other angry afternoons and evenings had occurred tothem until their brains were lousy with memories of all stripes, a phrase which heremeans “both good and bad.”It gave the siblings a queasy feeling to cross this line in their memories, and admitthat their parents were sometimes difficult, and it made them feel all the queasier torealize they could not step back, and pretend they had never remembered these lessthan-perfect moments, any more than they could step back in time, and once againfind themselves safe in the Baudelaire home, before fire and Count Olaf hadappeared in their lives.“My brother used to get angry, too,” Fiona said. “Before he disappeared, he wouldhave awful fights with my stepfather – late at night, when they thought I was asleep.”“Your stepfather didn’t mention that,” Violet said. “He said your brother was acharming man.”“Maybe he only remembers the charming parts,” Fiona replied. “Maybe he doesn’twant to remember everything. Maybe he wants to keep those parts secret.”“Do you think your stepfather knew about this place?” Klaus asked, lookingaround the eerie room. “He mentioned that we might find a place to take off ourdiving helmets, remember? It seemed strange at the time.”“I don’t know,” Fiona said. “Maybe that’s another secret he was keeping.”“Like the sugar bowl,” Violet said.“Speaking which,” Sunny said.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “We should keep looking for the sugar bowl.”“It must be here someplace,” Fiona agreed, “and besides, we need some way topass the time until the fungus wanes. Everyone should spread out, and give a shout ifyou find the sugar bowl.”The Baudelaires nodded in agreement, and the four volunteers took distantpositions on the sand, taking care not to step any closer to the Medusoid Mycelium .For the next few hours, they dug through the sand floor of the grotto and examinedwhat they found by the light of the two floorlamps. Each layer of sand uncoveredseveral items of interest, but no matter how many objects the children encountered,no one gave a shout.Violet found a butter dish, a length of electrical wire, and an odd, square stonewith messages carved in three languages, but not what she was looking for, and sothe eldest Baudelaire remained silent. Klaus found a box of toothpicks, a small handpuppet, and a ring made of dull metal, but not what he had come to the cave to find,and so the middle Baudelaire merely sighed. And Sunny found two cloth napkins, abroken telephone receiver, and a fancy wineglass filled with holes, but when shefinally opened her mouth to speak, the youngest Baudelaire merely said, “Snack!”which meant something like, “Why don’t we stop for a bite to eat?” and quicklyopened the crackers and peanut butter she had found.“Thanks, Sunny,” Fiona said, taking a cracker spread with peanut butter. “I mustsay, Baudelaires, I’m getting frustrated. My hands ache from all that digging, butthere’s no sign of the sugar bowl.”“I’m beginning to think this is a fool’s errand,” Violet said, using a phrase whichhere means “errand performed by a fool.”“We journeyed all the way down here to find a crucial item, and instead it seemslike we’re finding nothing but junk. It’s a waste of time.”“Not necessarily,” Klaus said, eating a cracker and looking at the items he hadfound. “We may not have found the sugar bowl, but I think we did find some crucialinformation.”“What do you mean?” Violet said.“Look at this,” Klaus said, and held up a book he had taken from the sand. “It’s acollection of poetry, and most of it is too damp to read. But look at the title page.”The middle Baudelaire held open the book so the other volunteers could see.“Versed Furtive Disclosure,” Violet read out loud.“V.F.D.,” Sunny said.“Yes,” Klaus said. “ ‘Furtive’ means ‘secretive,’ and ‘disclosure’ means ‘to revealsomething.’ I think V.F.D. may have hidden things here – not just the sugar bowl, butother secrets.”“That would make sense,” Violet said. “This grotto is a bit like a secretpassageway – like the one we found underneath our home, or the one Quigley foundunderneath his.”Fiona nodded, and began to search through a pile of items she had taken from thesand. “I found an envelope earlier,” she said, “but I didn’t think to open it. I was toobusy concentrating on the sugar bowl.”“Punctilio,” Sunny said, holding up a torn and tattered sheet of newspaper. Thechildren could see the letters “V.F.D.” circled in a headline.“I’m too exhausted to dig anymore,” Violet said. “Let’s spend some time readinginstead. Klaus, you can examine that poetry book. Fiona, you can see if there’sanything worthwhile in that envelope. And I’ll take a look at the clipping Sunnyfound.”“Me?” asked Sunny, whose reading skills were still developing.“Why don’t you cook us something, Sunny,” Klaus suggested with a smile. “Thosecrackers just whetted my appetite.”“Pronto,” the youngest Baudelaire promised, looking at the foodstuffs she hadfound in the sand, most of which were sealed up tight.The phrase “whet my appetite,” as you probably know, refers to one’s hungerbeing awakened, and usually it refers to food. The Baudelaires had lost track of timewhile searching through the sand of the grotto, and the snack Sunny prepared madethem realize just how long it had been since they had eaten. But another appetite hadbeen whetted for the Baudelaires as well – a hunger for secrets, and for informationthat might help them.As Sunny began to prepare a meal for her fellow volunteers, Violet and Klauslooked over the materials they had found, devouring whatever information seemedimportant, and Fiona did the same thing, leaning up against the tiled wall of thecavern as she examined the contents of the envelope she had found.The volunteers’ hunger for information was almost as fierce as their hunger forfood, and after a lengthy period of studying and note taking, whisking and mixing,the four children could not say whether they were more eager to hear about theothers’ research or to eat the meal Sunny had prepared.“What is this?” Violet asked her sister, peering into the fishbowl Sunny was usingas a serving dish.“Pesto lo mein,” Sunny explained.“What my sister means,” Klaus said, “is that she found a package of soft Chinesenoodles, which she tossed with an Italian basil sauce she got out of a jar.”“That’s quite an international combination,” Fiona said.“Hobson,” Sunny said, which meant “I didn’t have much choice, given oursurroundings,” and then held up another item she had found. “Wasabi?”“What’s wasabi?” Violet asked.“It’s a Japanese condiment,” Klaus said. “It’s very spicy, and often served withfish.”“Why don’t we save the wasabi, Sunny,” Violet said, taking the tin of wasabi andputting it in the pocket of her uniform. “We’ll take it back to the Queequeg and youcan use it in a seafood recipe.”Sunny nodded in agreement, and passed the fishbowl to her siblings. “Utensi,” shesaid.“We can use these swizzle sticks as chopsticks,” Klaus said. “We’ll have to taketurns, and whoever isn’t eating can tell us what they’ve discovered. Here, Fiona, whydon’t you go first?”“Thanks,” Fiona said, taking the swizzle sticks gratefully. “I’m quite hungry. Didyou learn anything from that poetry book?”“Not as much as I would have liked,” Klaus said. “Most of the pages were soakedfrom their journey, and so I couldn’t read much. But I believe I’ve learned a newcode: Verse Fluctuation Declaration. It’s a way to communicate by substituting wordsin poems.”“I don’t understand,” Violet said. “It’s a bit tricky,” Klaus said, opening hiscommonplace book, in which he’d copied the information. “The book uses a poemcalled ‘My Last Duchess,’ by Robert Browning, as an example.”“I’ve read that,” Fiona said, twirling a few noodles around a swizzle stick to getthem into her mouth. “It’s a very creepy story about a man who murders his wife.”“Right,” Klaus said. “But if a volunteer used the name of the poem in a codedcommunication, the title might be ‘My Last Wife’ instead of ‘My Last Duchess,’ bythe poet ‘Obert Browning’ instead of Robert Browning.”“What purpose would that serve?” Violet said. “The volunteer reading it wouldnotice the mistake,” Klaus said. “The changing of certain words or letters is a kind offluctuation. If you fixed the fluctuations in the poem, you’d receive the message.”“Duchess R?” Fiona asked. “What kind of message is that?”“I’m not sure,” Klaus admitted. “The next page in the book is missing.”“Do you think the missing page is a code, too?” Violet asked.Klaus shrugged. “I don’t know,” he said. “Codes are nothing more than a way oftalking so that some people understand and other people don’t. Remember when wetalked to Quigley in the cave, with all the other Snow Scouts listening?”“Yes,” Violet said. “We used words that began with V, F, and D, so that we knewwe were all on the same side.”“Maybe we should have a code ourselves,” Fiona said, “so that we cancommunicate if we run into trouble.”“That’s a good idea,” Klaus said. “What should we use as code words?”“Food,” Sunny suggested.“Perfect,” Violet said. “We’ll draw up a list of foods and what they mean in ourcode. We’ll bring them up in conversation, and our enemies will never suspect thatwe’re actually communicating.”“And our enemies could be around any corner,” Fiona said, handing the fishbowlof lo mein to Violet and picking up the envelope she had found. “Inside this envelopewas a letter. Normally I don’t like to read other people’s mail, but it seems unlikelythat this letter will ever reach Gregor Anwhistle.”“Gregor Anwhistle?” Violet asked. “He’s the man who founded the researchcenter. Who was writing to him?”“A woman named Kit,” Fiona said. “I think it’s Kit Snicker – Jacques’s sister.”“Of course,” Klaus said. “Your stepfather said she was a noble woman who helpedbuild the Queequeg .”“According to her letter,” Fiona said, “Gregor Anwhistle was involved insomething called a ‘schism.’ What’s that?”“It was a big conflict within V.F.D.,” Klaus said. “Quigley told us a little bit aboutit.”“Everybody chose sides,” Violet recalled, “and now the organization is in chaos.Which side was Gregor on?”“I don’t know,” Fiona said, frowning. “Some of this letter is in code, and some ofit was in water. I can’t understand all of it, but it sounds like Gregor was involvedwith something called Volatile Fungus Deportation.”“ ‘Volatile’ means ‘unstable,’ or ‘likely to cause trouble,’ ” Klaus said. “ ‘Fungus,’of course, means ‘mushrooms,’ and ‘deportation’ means ‘moving something from oneplace to another.’ Who was moving unstable mushrooms?”“V.F.D.,” Fiona replied. “During the schism, Gregor thought the MedusoidMycelium might be useful.”“The Medusoid Mycelium?” Violet said, looking nervously at the silent, graymushrooms that still lined the entrance to the small, tiled room, their black splotcheslooking particularly eerie in the dim light. “I can’t imagine thinking that such deadlythings could be useful.”“Listen to what Kit wrote about it,” Fiona said. “ ‘The poisonous fungus you insiston cultivating in the grotto will bring grim consequences for all of us. Our factory atLousy Lane can provide some dilution of the mycelium’s destructive respiratorycapabilities, and you assure me that the mycelium grows best in small, enclosedspaces, but this is of little comfort. One mistake, Gregor, and your entire facilitywould have to be abandoned. Please, do not become the thing you dread most byadopting the destructive tactic of our most villainous enemies: playing with fire.”Klaus was busily copying Kit Snicket’s letter into his commonplace book. “Gregorwas growing those mushrooms,” he said, “to use on enemies of V.F.D.”“He was going to poison people?” Violet asked.“Villainous people,” Fiona replied, “but Kit Snicket thought that using poisonousmushrooms was equally villainous. They were working on a way to weaken thepoison, in a factory on Lousy Lane . But the writer of this letter still thought thatVolatile Fungus Deportation was too dangerous, and she warned Gregor that if hewasn’t careful, the mycelium would poison the entire research center.”“And now the center is gone,” Violet said, “and the mycelium remains. Somethingwent very wrong, right here where we’re sitting.”“I still don’t understand it,” Klaus said. “Was Gregor a villain?”“I think he was volatile,” Fiona said, “like the Medusoid Mycelium . And thewriter of this letter says that if you cultivate something volatile, then you’re playingwith fire.”Violet shuddered, stopped eating her pesto lo mein, and put down the fishbowl.“Playing with fire,” of course, is an expression that refers to any dangerous orrisky activity, such as writing a letter to a volatile person, or journeying through adark cave filled with a poisonous fungus in order to search for an object that wastaken away quite some time before, and the Baudelaires did not like to think aboutthe fire they were playing with, or the fires that had already been played with in thisdamp and mysterious room. For a moment, nobody spoke, and the Baudelaires gazedat the stalks and caps of the deadly mushrooms, wondering what had gone wrongwith Anwhistle Aquatics. They wondered how the schism began. And they wonderedabout all of the mysterious and villainous things that seemed to surround the threeorphans, drawing closer and closer as their woeful lives went on and on, and if suchmysteries would ever be solved and if such villains ever defeated.“Wane,” Sunny said suddenly, and the children saw it was true. The crowd ofmushrooms seemed to be just a bit smaller, and here and there they saw a stalk andcap disappear back into the sand, as if the poisonous fungus had decided toimplement an alternate strategy, a phrase which here means “would terrorize theBaudelaires in another way.”“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said with relief. “The Medusoid Mycelium is waning. Soonit’ll be safe enough to return to the Queequeg .”“It must be a fairly short cycle,” Fiona said, making a note in her commonplacebook. “How long do you think we’ve been here?”“All night, at least,” Violet said, unfolding the sheet of newspaper Sunny hadfound. “It’s lucky we found all these materials, otherwise we would have been quitebored.”“My brother always had a deck of cards with him,” Fiona remembered, “in case hewas stuck in a boring situation. He invented this card game called Fernald’s Folly,and we used to play it together whenever we had a long wait.”“Fernald?” Violet asked. “Was that your brother’s name?”“Yes,” Fiona said. “Why do you ask?”A Series of Unfortunate Events 11 - TheGrim Grotto“I was just curious,” she said, hurriedly tucking the newspaper into the pocket ofher uniform. There was just enough room to slip it next to the tin of wasabi.“Aren’t you going to tell us what was in the newspaper?” Klaus asked. “I saw theheadline said V.F.D.”“I didn’t learn anything,” Violet said. “The article was too blurred to read.”“Hmmm,” Sunny said, and gave her sister a sly look. The youngest Baudelaire hadknown Violet since she was born, of course, and found it quite easy to tell when shewas lying.Violet looked back at Sunny, and then at Klaus, and shook her head, very, veryslightly. “Why don’t we get ready to go?” the eldest Baudelaire suggested. “By thetime we pack up these documents and put on our diving helmets, the fungus will havewaned completely.”“You’re right,” Fiona said. “Here, Sunny, I’ll help you get into your helmet. It’sthe least I can do after you cooked such a delicious meal.”“Shivalrush,” Sunny said, which meant “‘That’s very kind of you,” and althoughFiona had not known Sunny very long, she understood what the youngest Baudelairehad said, more or less, and smiled at all three of the Baudelaire siblings.As the four volunteers suited up – a phrase which here means “prepared theirhelmets for an underwater journey” – the Baudelaire children felt as if Fiona fit themlike a glove – as a friend, or possibly something more. It felt as if Fiona and theBaudelaires were part of the same team, or the same organization, trying to solve thesame mysteries and defeat the sane villains. It felt that way to the two youngerBaudelaires, anyway. Only Violet felt as if their friendship were more volatile, as ifFiona fit her like the wrong glove, or as if their friendship had a tiny flaw – a flawthat might turn into a schism.As Violet put the diving helmet over her head, and made sure that the zipper of theuniform was zipped tight over the portrait of Herman Melville, she heard the slightrustle of the newspaper clipping in her pocket and frowned. She kept frowning as thelast of the mushrooms disappeared into the sand, and the four children steppedcarefully back into the icy dark water. Because they were traveling against the tide,the volunteers had decided to hold hands, so they would not lose track of one anotheras they returned to the Queequeg , and as their dark journey began, Violet thought ofthe dangerous and risky secret concealed in her pocket and realized, as Klaus led theway back to the submarine, with Fiona holding Klaus’s hand, and Violet holdingFiona’s, and Sunny, curled in her helmet, tucked tightly under Violet’s arm, that evenwhile swimming in the icy depths of the ocean, the Baudelaires were playing withfire.The sinister information in the newspaper clipping was like a tiny spore,blossoming in the small, enclosed space of Violet’s pocket – like a spore of thedeadly Medusoid Mycelium , which at that very moment was blossoming in thesmall, enclosed space of a diving helmet worn by one of the Baudelaire orphans.of these phenomena – precipitation – is the process by which vapor turns into waterand falls as rain, something you might notice during a rainfall or by going outdoors on arainy morning, afternoon, evening, or night. This falling water you notice is known as“rain,” which is the result of the phenomenon of precipitation, one of the three phenomenathat comprise the water cycle. Of these three phenomena, precipitation is regarded as thesecond one, particularly if a list of the three phenomena places precipitation in the middle,or second, spot on the list. “Precipitation” is quite simply a term for the transformation ofvapor into water, which then falls as rain – something you might encounter if you were tostep outside during a rainstorm. Rain consists of water, which was formerly vapor butunderwent the process known as “precipitation,” one of the three phenomena in the watercycle, and by now this tedious description must have put you back to sleep, so you mayavoid the gruesome details of my account of Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire as theymade their way through the Gorgonian Grotto back to the Queequeg .The Baudelaire orphans knew that something was wrong the moment they arrivedat the submarine, knocked on the metal hatch, and heard no answer from the captaininside. It had been a dark and cold journey back through the cave, made all the moredifficult by the fact that they were swimming against the tide, rather than letting thecurrent carry them along.Klaus, who was leading the way, swept one arm in front of him from side to side,fearful that he would miss the Queequeg altogether, or brush his hand againstsomething sinister lurking in the cavern. Fiona trembled throughout the entirejourney, and Violet could feel her nervous fingers twitching as she held her hand.And Sunny tried not to panic inside her diving helmet, as her siblings’ swim madeher bounce up and down in the blackness. The youngest Baudelaire could not see asingle light through the small round window in her helmet, but as with all of theBaudelaires, she concentrated on arriving safely, and the thought of returning to theQueequeg felt like a small light glowing in the gloom of the grotto.Soon, the Baudelaires thought, they would hear the booming “Aye!” of CaptainWiddershins as he welcomed them back from their mission. Perhaps Phil would havecooked them a nice hot meal, even without the culinary assistance of Sunny. Andperhaps the telegram device would have received another Volunteer Factual Dispatch,one that might help them find the sugar bowl so their entire journey would not havebeen a fool’s errand.But when Klaus led them to the hatch, they found no sign that anyone aboard theQueequeg was welcoming them. After knocking for several minutes, the worriedchildren had to open the hatch by themselves, a difficult task in the dark, and enterthe passageway, quickly closing the hatch behind them. They grew more worried asthey discovered that nobody had activated the hatch, so quite a bit of water flowedinto the passageway and poured down to the room in which the Baudelaires had firstmet Captain Widdershins. They could hear the water splashing on the submarinefloor as they began their climb down, and strained to hear the captain shouting “Aye!What a mess!” or “Aye! The valve is broken!” or even something optimistic fromPhil, like “Look on the bright side – it’s like having a wading pool!”“Captain Widdershins?” Violet called, her voice muffled through her helmet.“Stepfather?” Fiona called, her voice muffled through hers.“Phil?” Klaus called.“Crew?” Sunny called.Nobody answered these calls, and nobody commented on the water from thepassageway, and when the volunteers reached the end of the passageway and loweredthemselves into the small, dim room, they found nobody there to meet them.“Stepfather?” Fiona called again, but they heard only the movement of the wateras it settled into a large puddle on the floor. Without bothering to take off theirhelmets, the four children splashed through the water and hurried down the hallway,past the plaque with the captain’s personal philosophy engraved on it, until theyreached the Main Hall.The room was just as enormous as ever, of course, with all of the bewilderingpipes, panels, and warning signs, although it seemed as if the place had been tidiedup a bit, and there was now a tiny hit of decoration near the wooden table where theBaudelaires had eaten Sonny’s chowder and planned their journey through theGorgonian Grotto. Tied to three chairs were small blue balloons that hovered in theair, and each balloon had a letter printed on its surface in thick, black ink. The firstballoon read “V,” the second read “F,” and only someone as dim as an underwatercave would be surprised to hear that the third read “D.”“V.F.D.,” Violet said. “Do you think it’s a code?”“I’m not interested in codes at the moment,” Fiona said, her voice tense andechoey inside her helmet. “I want to find my crewmates. Look around, everyone.”The Baudelaires looked around the room, but it seemed as empty and lonely as thegrotto. Without the enormous presence of Captain Widdershins – “enormouspresence” is a phrase which here means “large physical size, combined with a vibrantpersonality and loud voice” – the Main Hall seemed utterly deserted.“Maybe they’re in the kitchen,” Klaus said, although it sounded like he didn’tbelieve it himself, “or napping in the barracks.”“They wouldn’t have napped,” Violet said. “They said they’d be watching us theentire time.”Fiona took a step toward the door to the kitchen, but then stopped and looked atthe wooden table. “Their helmets are gone,” she said. “Both Phil and my stepfatherwere keeping their diving helmets on the table, in case of an emergency.” She ran herhand along the table, as if she could make the helmets reappear. “They’re gone,” shesaid. “They’ve left the Queequeg .”“I can’t believe that,” Klaus said, shaking his head. “They knew we were travelingthrough the grotto. They wouldn’t abandon their fellow volunteers.”“Maybe they thought we weren’t coming back,” Fiona said.“No,” Violet said, pointing to a panel on the wall. “They could see us. We weretiny green dots on the sonar detector.”The children looked at the sonar panel, hoping to see dots that might representtheir missing crewmates.“They must have had a very good reason to leave,” Fiona said.“What reason could there be?” Klaus said. “No matter what occurred, they wouldhave waited for us.”“No,” Fiona said. Sadly, she removed her diving helmet, and the middleBaudelaire saw she had tears in her eves. “No matter what occurred,” she said, “mystepfather wouldn’t have hesitated. He or she who hesitates is…”“Lost,” Klaus finished for her, and put his hand on her shoulder. “Maybe theydidn’t go of their own volition,” Violet said, using a phrase which here means “bychoice.” “Maybe somebody took them.”“Took the crew away,” Klaus said, “and left behind three balloons?”“It’s a mystery,” Violet said, “but I’m sure it’s one we can solve. Let’s just take offour helmets, and we can get to work.”Klaus nodded, and removed his diving helmet, putting it down on the floor next toFiona’s. Violet removed hers, and then went to open the tiny door of Sunny’s helmet,so the youngest Baudelaire could uncurl herself from the small, enclosed space andjoin her siblings. But Fiona grabbed Violet’s hand before it reached the helmet, andstopped her, pointing through the small round window in Sunny’s helmet.There are many things in this world that are difficult to see. An ice cube in a glassof water, for instance, might pass unnoticed, particularly if the ice cube is small, andthe glass of water is ten miles in diameter. A short woman might be difficult to see ona crowded city street, particularly if she has disguised herself as a mailbox, andpeople keep putting letters in her mouth. And a small, ceramic bowl, with a tightfitting lid to keep something important inside, might be difficult to find in the laundryroom of an enormous hotel, particularly if there were a terrible villain nearby, makingyou feel nervous and distracted. But there are also things that are difficult to see notbecause of the size of their surroundings, or a clever disguise, or a treacherous personwith a book of matches in his pocket and a fiendish plot in his brain, but because thethings are so upsetting to look at, so distressing to believe, that it is as if your eyesrefuse to see what is right in front of them. You can glance into a mirror, and not seehow old you are growing, or how unattractive your hairstyle has become, untilsomeone kindly points those things out to you. You can gaze upon a place you oncelived, and not see how sinister the neighborhood has become, until you walk a fewpaces to an ice-cream store and notice that your favorite flavor has beendiscontinued. And you can stare into the small, round window of a diving helmet, asViolet and Klaus did at that moment, and not see the stalks and caps of a terrible grayfungus growing poisonously on the glass, until someone utters its scientific name in ahorrified whisper.“It’s the Medusoid Mycelium,” Fiona said, and the two elder Baudelaires blinkedand saw that it was so.“Oh no,” Violet murmured. “Oh no!”“Get her out!” Klaus cried. “Get Sunny out at once, or she’ll be poisoned!”“No!” Fiona said, and snatched the helmet away from the siblings. She put it downon the table as if it were a tureen, a word which here means “a wide, deep dish usedfor serving stew or soup, instead of a small, terrified girl curled up in a piece of deepsea equipment.”“The diving helmet can serve as quarantine. If we open it, the fungus will spread.The entire submarine could become a field of mushrooms.”“We can’t leave our sister in there!” Violet cried. “The spores will poison her!”“She’s probably been poisoned already,” Fiona said quietly. “In a small, enclosedspace like that helmet, there’s no way she could escape.”“That can’t be true,” Klaus said, taking off his glasses as if refusing to see thehorror of their situation. But at that moment their predicament became perfectly clear, asthe children heard a small, eerie sound come from the helmet. It reminded Violet andKlaus of the fish of the Stricken Stream, struggling to breathe in the ashy, black waters.Sunny was coughing. “Sunny!” Klaus shouted into the helmet.“Malady,” Sunny said, which meant “I’m beginning to feel unwell.”“Don’t talk, Sunny!” Fiona called through the tiny window of the helmet, andturned to the elder Baudelaires. “The mycelium has destructive respiratorycapabilities,” the mycologist explained, walking over to the sideboard. “That’s whatit said in that letter. Your sister should save her breath. The spores will make it moreand more difficult for Sunny to talk, and she’ll probably start coughing as the fungusgrows inside her. In an hour’s time, she won’t be able to breathe. It would befascinating if it weren’t so horrible.”“Fascinating?” Violet covered her mouth with her hands and shut her eyes, tryingnot to imagine what her terrified sister was feeling. “What can we do?” she asked.“We can make an antidote,” Fiona said. “There must be some useful information inmy mycological library.”“I’ll help,” Klaus said. “I’m sure I’ll find the books difficult to read, but –”“No,” Fiona said. “I need to be alone to do my research. You and Violet shouldclimb that rope ladder and fire up the engines so we can get out of this cave.”“But we should all do the research!” Violet cried. “We only have one hour, ormaybe even less! If the mushrooms grew while we swam back to the Queequeg , then–”“Then we certainly don’t have time to argue,” Fiona finished, opening the cabinetand removing a large pile of books. “I order you to leave me alone, so I can do thisresearch and save your sister!”The elder Baudelaires looked at one another, and then at the diving helmet on thetable. “You order us?” Klaus asked.“Aye!” Fiona cried, and the children realized it was the first time the mycologisthad uttered that word. “I’m in charge here! With my stepfather gone, I am the captainof the Queequeg ! Aye!”“It doesn’t matter who the captain is!” Violet said. “The important thing is to savemy sister!”“Climb up that rope ladder!” Fiona cried. “Aye! Fire up those engines! Aye! We’regoing to save Sunny! Aye! And find my stepfather! Aye! And retrieve the sugarbowl! Aye! And it’s no time to hesitate! She who hesitates is lost! That’s my personalphilosophy!”“That’s the captain’s personal philosophy,” Klaus said, “not yours.”“I am the captain!” Fiona said fiercely. The middle Baudelaire could see thatbehind her triangular glasses, the mycologist was crying. “Go and do what I say.”Klaus opened his mouth to say something more, but found that he, too, was crying,and without another word turned from his friend and walked over to the rope ladder,with Violet following behind. “She’s wrong!” the eldest Baudelaire whisperedfuriously. “You know she’s wrong, Klaus. What are we going to do?”“We’re going to fire up the engines,” Klaus said, “and steer the Queequeg out ofthis cave.”“But that won’t save Sunny,” Violet said. “Don’t you remember the description ofthe Medusoid Mycelium?”“ ‘A single spore has such grim power,’ ” Klaus recited, “ ‘that you may, die withinthe hour.’ Of course I remember.”“I hour?” Sunny said fearfully from inside her helmet. “Shush,” Violet said. “Saveyour breath, Sunny. We’ll find a way to cure you right away.”“Not right away,” Klaus corrected sadly. “Fiona is the captain now, and sheordered us –”“I don’t care about Fiona’s orders,” Violet said. “She’s too volatile to get us out ofthis situation – just like her stepfather, and just like her brother!” The eldestBaudelaire reached into the pocket of her uniform and drew out the newspaperclipping she had taken from the grotto. Her hand brushed against the tin of wasabi,and she shivered, hoping that her sister would recuperate and live to use the Japanesecondiment in one of her recipes. “Listen to this, Klaus!”“I don’t want to listen!” Klaus said in an angry whisper. “Maybe Fiona is right!Maybe we shouldn’t hesitate, particularly at a time like this! If we don’t get anantidote to our sister, she might perish! Hesitating will only make things worse!”“Firing up the engines, instead of helping Fiona with her research, will only makethings worse!” Violet said.At that moment, however, both Violet and Klaus saw something that made thingsworse, and they realized that they both had been wrong. The two Baudelairesshouldn’t have been firing up the engines of the Queequeg , and they shouldn’t havebeen helping Fiona with her research, and they shouldn’t have been arguing with oneanother. The Baudelaires, and Fiona, too, should have been standing very still, tryingnot to make even the smallest noise, and instead of looking at the diving helmet,where their sister was suffering under the poison of the Medusoid Mycelium, theyshould have been looking at the submarine’s sonar detector, or out of the portholeover the table, which looked out into the dark depths of the cave.On the green panel was the glowing Q, representing the Queequeg , but this wasanother thing in the world that was difficult to see, because another glowing greensymbol was occupying the very same space. And outside the porthole was a mass ofsmall metal tubes, circling in the gloomy water and making thousands and thousandsof bubbles, and in the middle of all those tubes was a large, open space, like agigantic hungry mouth – the mouth of an octopus, about to devour the Queequeg andall its remaining crew. The image on the sonar detector, of course, was an eye, andthe view from the porthole was of a submarine, but either way the children knew itwas Count Olaf, and that made things much, much worse indeed.C H A P T E RNineIf you are considering a life of villainy – and I certainly hope that you are not –there are a few things that appear to be necessary to every villain ‘s success. Onething is a villainous disregard for other people, so that a villain may talk to his or hervictims impolitely, ignore their pleas for mercy, and even behave violently towardthem if the villain is in the mood of thing. Another thing villains require is avillainous imagination, so that they might spend their free time dreaming uptreacherous schemes in order to further their villainous careers. Villains require asmall group of villainous cohorts, who can be persuaded to serve the villain in ahenchpersonal capacity. And villains need to develop a villainous laugh, so that theymay simultaneously celebrate their villainous deeds and frighten whatevernonvillainous people happen to be nearby. A successful villain should have all ofthese things at his or her villainous fingertips, or else give up villainy altogether andtry to lead a life of decency, integrity, and kindness, which is much more challengingand noble, if not always quite as exciting. Count Olaf, of course, was an excellentvillain, a phrase which here means “someone particularly skilled at villainy” ratherthan “a villain with several desirable qualities,” and the Baudelaire orphans hadknown this soon after that terrible day at Briny Beach, when the children learned ofthe terrible fire that began so many of the unfortunate events in their lives. But as theQueequeg tumbled into the mouth of his dreadful octopus submarine, it seemed to theorphans that the villain had become even more villainous during his brief absencefrom their lives.Olaf had proven his villainous disregard for other people over and over, from hisvicious murder of the children’s guardians to his affinity for arson, a phrase whichhere means “enthusiasm for burning down buildings, no matter how many peoplewere inside,” but the children realized that Olaf’s disregard had become even moredreadful, as the Queequeg passed through the gaping mouth and was roughly tossedfrom side to side in a mechanical imitation of swallowing, forcing Violet and Klaus –and Fiona, too, of course – to hang on for dear life as the Main Hall rolled this wayand that, spinning Sunny in her helmet like a watermelon in a washing machine.The count had displayed his villainous imagination on a number of occasions,from his dastardly schemes to steal the Baudelaire fortune to his nefarious plots tokidnap Duncan and Isadora Quagmire, but the siblings gazed out of the porthole andsaw that Olaf’s infernal imagination had run utterly wild in decorating this terriblesubmarine, for the Queequeg rolled along a rumbling tunnel that was almost as darkand threatening as the Gorgonian Grotto, with every inch of its metallic walls coveredin eerie glowing eyes.The count always had an assortment of cohorts, from his original theatrical troupe– many of whom were no longer with him – to some former employees of CaligariCarnival, but the orphans saw that he had lured many others to join him when thetunnel rounded a corner and the elder Baudelaires had a brief glimpse of an enormousroom full of people rowing long, metal oars, activating the terrible metal arms of theoctopus. And, perhaps worst of all, when the Queequeg finally came to a shudderingstop and Violet and Klaus looked out of the porthole, they learned that the villain hadclearly been rehearsing his villainous laugh until it was extra wicked and moretheatrical than ever.Count Olaf was standing on a small, metal platform with a triumphant grin on hisface, dressed in a familiar suit made of slippery-looking material, but with a portraitof another author whom only a very devoted reader would recognize, and when hepeered through the porthole and spied the frightened children, he opened his mouthand began his new villainous laugh, which included new wheezes, bonus snarls, andan assortment of strange syllables the Baudelaires had never heard.“Ha ha ha heepa-heepa ho !” he cried. “Tee hee tort tort tort! Hot cha ha ha!Sniggle hee! Ha, if I do say so myself!”With a boastful gesture, he hopped off the platform, drew a long, sharp sword, andquickly traced a circle on the glass of the porthole. Violet and Klaus covered theirears as the sword shrieked its way around the window. Then, with one flick of hissword, Olaf sent the glass circle tumbling into the Main Hall, where it lay unbrokenon the floor, and leaped through the porthole onto the large, wooden table to laugh atthem further.“I’m splitting my sides!” he cried. “I’m rolling in the aisles! I’m nauseous withmirth! I’m rattling with glee! I’m seriously considering compiling a joke book fromall of the hilarious things bouncing around my brain! Hup hup ha ha hammy heehee!”Violet dashed forward and grabbed the helmet in which Sunny was still curled, soOlaf would not kick it as he pranced triumphantly on top of the table. She could notbear to think of her sister, who was inhaling the poison of the Medusoid Mycelium asOlaf wasted precious minutes performing his tiresome new laugh.“Stop laughing, Count Olaf,” she said. “‘There’s nothing funny about villainy.”“Sure there is!” Olaf crowed. “Ha ha hat rack! Just think of it! I made my waydown the mountain and found pieces of your toboggan scattered all over some verysharp rocks! Tee hee torpid sniggle! I thought you had drowned in the StrickenStream and were swimming with all those coughing fishes! Ho ho hagfish! I wasbrokenhearted!”“You weren’t brokenhearted,” Klaus said. “You’ve tried to destroy us plenty oftimes.”“That’s why I was brokenhearted!” Olaf cried. “Ho ho sniggle! I personallyplanned to slaughter you Baudelaires myself, after I had your fortune of course, andpry the sugar bowl out of your dead fingers or toes!”Violet and Klaus looked at one another hurriedly. They had almost forgottentelling Olaf that they knew the location of the sugar bowl, even though they of coursehad no idea of its whereabouts.“To cheer myself up,” the villain continued, “I met my associates at the HotelDenouement, where they where they were cooking up a little scheme of their own,and convinced them to lend me a handful of our new recruits.”The elder Baudelaires knew that the associates were the man with a beard and nohair, and the woman with hair but no beard, two people so sinister that even Olafseemed to find them a bit frightening, and that the new recruits were a group of SnowScouts that these villains had recently kidnapped.“Tee hee turncoat! Thanks to their generosity, I was able to get this submarineworking again! Sniggle ha ho ho! Of course, I need to be back at the HotelDenouement before Thursday, but in the meantime I had a few days to kill, so Ithought I’d kill some of my old enemies! Tee hee halbert sniggle! So I began roamingaround the sea, looking for Captain Widdershins and his idiotic submarine on mysonar detector! Tee hee telotaxis! But now that I’ve captured the Queequeg , I findyou Baudelaires aboard! It’s hilarious! It’s humorous! It’s droll! It’s relativelyamusing!”“How dare you capture this submarine!” Fiona cried. “I’m the captain of theQueequeg , and I demand that you return us to the sea at once! Aye!”Count Olaf peered down at the mycologist. “Aye?” he repeated. “You must beFiona, that little fungus freak! Why, you’re all grown up! The last time I saw you Iwas trying to throw thumbtacks into your cradle! Ha ha hot polloi! What happened toWiddershins? Why isn’t he the captain?”“My stepfather is not around at the moment,” Fiona replied, blinking behind hertriangular glasses.“Hee hee terry cloth!” Count Olaf said. “Your stepfather has abandoned you, eh?Well, I suppose it was only a matter of time. Your whole family could never choosewhich side of the schism was theirs. Your brother used to be a goody-goody as well,trying to prevent fires instead of encouraging them, but eventually –”“My stepfather has not abandoned me,” Fiona said, though her voice faltered a bit,a phrase which here means “sounded as if she weren’t so sure.” She did not even addan “Aye!” to her sentence.“We’ll see about that,” Olaf said, grinning wickedly. “I’m going to lock all of youin the brig, which is the official seafaring term for Jail.”“We know what the brig is,” Klaus said.“Then you know it’s not a very pleasant place,” the villain said. “The previousowner used it to hold traitors captive, and I see no reason to break with tradition.”“We’re not traitors, and we’re not leaving the Queequeg ,” Violet said, and held upthe diving helmet.Sunny tried to say something, but the growing fungus made her cough instead, andOlaf frowned at the coughing helmet.“What’s that?” he demanded.“Sunny is in here,” she said. “And she’s very ill.”“I was wondering where the baby brat was,” Count Olaf said. “I was hoping shewas trapped underneath my shoe, but I see that it’s just some ridiculous book.”He lifted his slippery foot to reveal Mushroom Minutiae, the book Fiona had beenusing for her research, and kicked it off the table where it skittered into a far corner.“There is a very deadly poison inside that helmet,” Fiona said, staring at the bookin frustration. “Aye! If Sunny doesn’t receive an antidote within the hour, she willperish.”“What do I care?” Olaf growled, once again showing his villainous disregard forother people. “I only need one Baudelaire to get my hands on the fortune. Now comewith me! Ha ha handiwork!”“We’re staying right here,” Klaus said. “Our sister’s life depends on it.”Count Olaf drew his sword again, and traced a sinister shape in the air. “I’ll tellyou what your lives depend on,” he said. “Your lives depend on me! If I wanted, Icould drown you in the sea, or have you strangled by the arms of the mechanicaloctopus! It’s only out of the kindness of my heart, and because of my own greed, thatI’m locking you in the brig instead!”Sunny coughed inside her helmet, and Violet thought quickly. “If you let us helpour sister,” she said, “we’ll tell you where the sugar bowl is.”Count Olaf’s eyes narrowed, and he gave the children a wide, toothy grin the twoBaudelaires remembered from so many of their troubled times. His eyes shonebrightly, as if he were telling a joke as nasty as his unbrushed teeth.“You can’t try that trick again,” he sneered. “I’m not going to bargain with anorphan, no matter how pretty she may be. Once you get to the brig, you’ll revealwhere the sugar bowl is – once my henchman gets his hands on you. Or should I sayhooks? Hee hee torture!”Count Olaf leaped back through the porthole as Violet and Klaus looked at oneanother in fear. They knew Count Olaf was referring to the hook-handed man, whohad been working with the villain as long as they had known him and was one oftheir least favorite of Olaf’s comrades.“I could race up the rope ladder,” Violet murmured to the others, “and fire up theengines of the Queequeg .”“We can’t take the submarine underwater with the window gone,” Fiona said.“We’d drown.”Klaus put his ear to the diving helmet, and heard his sister whimper, and thencough. “But how can we save Sunny?” he asked. “Time is running out.Fiona eyed the far corner of the room. “I’ll take that book with me,” she said, “and–”“Hurry up!” Count Olaf cried. “I can’t stand around all day! I have plenty ofpeople to boss around!”“Aye!” Fiona said, as Violet, still holding Sunny, led Klaus through the porthole tojoin Count Olaf on the platform. “I’ll be there in a second,” she said, and themycologist took one hesitant step toward Mushroom Minutiae.“You’ll be there now!” Olaf growled, and shook his sword at her. “He whohesitates is lost! Hee hee sniggle!”At the mention of the captain’s personal philosophy, Fiona sighed, and stopped herfurtive journey – a phrase which here means “sneaking” – toward the mycological book.“Or she,” she said quietly, and stepped through the porthole to join the Baudelaires.“On the way to the brig, I’ll give you the grand tour!” Olaf announced, leading theway out of the round, metal room that was serving as a sort of brig for the Queequegitself.There were several inches of water on the floor, to help the captured submarinemove through the tunnel, and the Baudelaires’ boots made loud, wet splashes as theyfollowed the boasting villain. While Sunny coughed again in her helmet, Olaf pressedan eye on the wall, and a small door slid open with a sinister whisper to reveal acorridor.“This submarine is one of the greatest things I’ve ever stolen,” he bragged. “It haseverything I’ll need to defeat V.F.D. once and for all. It has a sonar system, so I canrid the seas of V.F.D. submarines. It has an enormous flyswatter, so I can rid the skiesof V.F.D. planes. It has a lifetime supply of matches, so I can rid the world of V.F.D.headquarters. It has several cases of wine that I plan to drink up myself, and a closetfull of very stylish outfits for my girlfriend. And best of all, it has plenty ofopportunities for children to do hard labor! Ha ha hedonism!”Gesturing with his sword, he led the children around a corner into an enormousroom – the room they’d had a glimpse of as the Queequeg tumbled inside this terribleplace. It was quite dark, with only a few lanterns hanging from the tops of tall pillarsscattered around the room, but Violet and Klaus could see two large rows ofuncomfortable-looking wooden benches, on which sat a crowd of children, hurriedlyworking long oars that stretched across the room and even beyond the walls, wherethey slid through metal holes in order to control the tentacles of the octopus.The elder Baudelaires recognized some of the children from a troop of SnowScouts they had encountered in the Mortmain Mountains, and a few looked quite a bitlike other students at Prufrock Preparatory School, where the siblings had firstencountered Carmelita Spats, but some of the others were children with whom theBaudelaires had had no prior experience, a phrase which here means “who hadprobably been kidnapped by Count Olaf or his associates on another occasion.”The children looked very weary, quite hungry, and more than a little bored as theyworked the metal oars back and forth. In the very center of the room appeared to beanother octopus – this one made of slippery cloth. Six of the octopus’s arms hunglimply at its sides, but two of them were waving high in the air, one of them clutchingwhat looked like a long, damp noodle.“Row faster, you stupid brats!” the octopus cried in a familiar, wicked voice. “Wehave to get back to the hotel Denouement before Thursday, and it’s Monday already!If you don’t hurry up I’m going to hit you with this tagliatelle grande! I warn you,being struck with a large piece of pasta is an unpleasant and somewhat stickyexperience! Ho ho sniggle!”“Hee hee snaggic!” Olaf cried in agreement, and the octopus whirled around.“Darling!” it cried, and the siblings were not surprised to see that it was EsméSqualor, Count Olaf’s treacherous girlfriend, in another one of her absurd, stylishoutfits.Using the slippery cloth of the submarine’s uniforms, the villainous girlfriend hadfashioned an octopus dress, with two large plastic eyes, six extra sleeves, and suctioncups stuck all over her boots, just as real octopi have on their tentacles to help themmove around. Esmé took a few sticky steps toward Olaf and then peered at thechildren beneath the slippery hood of the dress.“Are these the Baudelaires?” she asked in astonishment. “How can that be? Wealready celebrated their deaths!”“It turns out they survived,” Count Olaf said, “but their good luck is about to cometo an end. I’m taking them to the brig!”“The baby certainly has grown,” Esmé said, peering at Fiona. “But she’s just asugly as she ever was.“No, no,” Olaf said. “The baby’s locked up in that helmet, coughing her little lungsout. This is Fiona, Captain Widdershin’s stepdaughter. The captain abandoned her!”“Abandoned her?” Esmé repeated. “How in! How stylish! How marvelous! Thiscalls for more of our new laughter! Ha ha hedgehog!”“Tee hee tempeh!” Olaf cackled. “Life keeps getting better and better!”“Sniggle ho ho!” Esmé shrieked. “Our triumph is just around the corner!”“Ha ha hepplewhite !” Olaf crowed. V.F.D. will be reduced to ashes forever!”“Giggle giggle glandular problems!” Esmé cried. “We are going to be painfullywealthy!”“Heepa deepa ho ho ha!” Olaf shouted. “The world will always remember thename of this wonderful submarine!”“What is the name of this submarine?” Fiona asked, and to the children’s relief thevillains stopped their irritating laughter.Olaf glared at the mycologist and then looked at the ground. “The Carmelita” headmitted quietly. “I wanted to call it the Olaf, but somebody made me change it.”“The Olaf is a cakesniffing name!” cried a rude voice the siblings had hoped neverto hear again, and I’m sorry to say that Carmelita Spats skipped into the room,sneering at the Baudelaires as she did so.Carmelita had always been the sort of unpleasant person who believed that shewas prettier and smarter than everybody else, and Violet and Klaus saw instantly thatshe had become even more spoiled under the care of Olaf and Esmé. She was dressedin an outfit perhaps even more absurd than Esmé Squalor’s, in different shades ofpink so blinding that Violet and Klaus had to squint in order to look at her. Aroundher waist was a wide, frilly tutu, which is a skirt used during ballet performances, andon her head was an enormous pink crown decorated with light pink ribbons and darkpink flowers. She had two pink wings taped to her back, two pink hearts drawn onher cheeks, and two different pink shoes on each foot that made unpleasant slappingsounds as she walked. Around her neck was a stethoscope, such as doctors use, withpink puffballs pasted all over it, and in one hand she had a long pink wand with abright pink star at the end of it.“Stop looking at my outfit!” she commanded the Baudelaires scornfully. “You’rejust jealous of me because I’m a tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian!”“You look adorable, darling,” purred Esmé, patting her on the crown. “Doesn’t shelook adorable, Olaf?”“I suppose so,” Count Olaf muttered. “I wish you would ask me before takingdisguises from my trunk.”“But Countie, I needed your disguises,” Carmelita whined, batting her eyelashes,which were covered in pink glitter. “I needed a special outfit for my special tapdancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian dance recital!”Several of the children groaned at their oars.“Please, no!” cried one of the Snow Scouts. “Her dance recitals last for hours!”“Have mercy on us!” cried another child.“Carmelita Spats is the most talented dancer in the entire universe!” Esmégrowled, snapping the noodle over the rower’s heads. “You brats should be gratefulthat she is performing for you! It’ll help you row!”“Ugh,” Sunny could not help saying from inside her helmet, as if the idea ofCarmelita’s dance recital were making her even sicker.The elder Baudelaires looked at one another and tried to imagine how they couldhelp their young sibling.“I think we have a pink cape aboard the Queequeg ,” Klaus said hurriedly. “Itwould look perfect on Carmelita. I’ll just run back to the submarine, and –”“I don’t want your old clothes, you cakesniffer!” Carmelita said scornfully. “A tapdancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian doesn’t wear hand-me-downs!”“Isn’t she precious” Esmé cooed. “She’s like the adopted child I never had –except for you Baudelaires, of course. But I never liked you much.”“Are you going to stay and watch me, Countie?” Carmelita asked. “This is goingto be the most special dance recital in the whole wide world!”“There’s too much work to do,” Count Olaf said hastily. “I have to throw thesechildren in the brig, so my associate can force them to reveal the location of the sugarbowl.”“You like that sugar bowl more than me,” Carmelita pouted.“Of course we don’t, darling,” Esmé said. “Olaf, tell her that sugar bowl doesn’tmean a thing to you! Tell her she’s like a wonderful marshmallow in the middle ofour lives!”“You’re a marshmallow, Carmelita,” Olaf said, and pushed the children out of theenormous room. “I’ll see you later.”“Tell Hooky to be extra vicious with those brats!” Esmé cried, whipping thetagliatelle grande over her fake octopus head. “And now, on with the show!”Count Olaf ushered the children out of the room as Carmelita Spats began tappingand twirling in front of the rowers. The elder Baudelaires were almost grateful to goto the brig, rather than being forced to watch a tap-dancing ballerina fairy princessveterinarian dance recital. Olaf dragged them down another hallway that twistedevery which way, curving to the right and to the left as if it were a snake themechanical octopus had eaten, and finally stopped in front of a small door, with ametal eye where the metal eye where the doorknob ought to have been.“This is the brig!” Count Olaf cried. “Ha ha haberdasher!”Sunny coughed once more from inside her helmet – a rough, loud cough thatsounded worse than before. The Medusoid Micelium was clearly continuing itsghastly growth, and Violet tried one more time to convince the villain to let themhelp her.“Please let us go back to the Queequeg ,” she said. “Can’t you hear her coughing?”“Yes,” Count Olaf said, “but I don’t care.”“Please!” Klaus cried. “This is a matter of life and death!”“It certainly is,” Olaf sneered, turning the knob. “My associate will make youreveal the location of the sugar bowl if he has to tear you apart to do it!”“Listen to my friends!” Fiona said. “Aye! We’re in a terrible situation!”“Oh, I wouldn’t say that,” Count Olaf said, with a wicked smile, as the doorcreaked open to reveal a small, bare room. There was nothing in it but a small stool,at which a man sat, shuffling a deck of cards with quite a bit of difficulty. “How can afamily reunion be a terrible situation?” Olaf said, and shoved the children inside theroom, slamming the door behind them.Violet and Klaus faced Olaf’s associate, and turned the diving helmet so Sunnycould face him, too. The siblings were not surprised, of course, that the personshuffling the cards was the hook-handed man, and they were not at all happy to seehim, and they were quite scared that their time in the brig would make it impossibleto save Sunny from the mushrooms growing inside her helmet. But when they lookedat Fiona, they saw that the mycologist was quite surprised at who she saw in the brig,and quite happy to see the man who stood up from his stool and waved his hooks inamazement.“Fiona!” the hook-handed man cried.“Fernald!” Fiona said, and it seemed they just might save Sunny after all.The way sadness works is one of the strange riddles of the world. If you arestricken with a great sadness, you may feel as if you have been set aflame, not onlybecause of the enormous pain, but also because your sadness may spread over yourlife, like smoke from an enormous fire. You might find it difficult to see anything butyour own sadness, the way smoke can cover a landscape so that all anyone can see isblack. You may find that happy things are tainted with sadness, the way smoke leavesits ashen colors and scents on everything it touches. And you may find that ifsomeone pours water all over you, you are damp and distracted, but not cured of yoursadness, the way a fire department can douse a fire but never recover what has beenburnt down.The Baudelaire orphans, of course, had had a great sadness in their life from themoment they first heard of their parents’ death, and sometimes it felt as if they had towave smoke away from their eyes to see even the happiest of moments. As Violetand Klaus watched Fiona and the hook-handed man embrace one another, they felt asif the smoke of their own unhappiness had filled the brig. They could not bear tothink that Fiona had found her long-lost brother when they themselves, in alllikelihood, would never see their parents again, and might even lose their sister as thepoisonous spores of the Medusoid Mycelium made her coughing sound worse andworse inside the helmet.“Fiona!” the hook-handed man cried. “Is it really you?”“Aye,” the mycologist said, taking off her triangular glasses to wipe away hertears. “I never thought I would see you again, Fernald. What happened to yourhands?”“Never mind that,” the hook-handed man said quickly. “Why are you here? Didyou join Count Olaf, too?”“Certainly not,” Fiona said firmly. “He captured the Queequeg , and threw us intothe brig.”“So you’ve joined the Baudelaire brats,” the hook-handed man said. “I shouldhave known you were a goody-goody!”“I haven’t joined the Baudelaires,” Fiona said, just as firmly. “They’ve joined me.Aye! I’m the captain of the Queequeg now.”“You?” said Olaf’s henchman. “What happened to Widdershins?”“He disappeared from the submarine,” Fiona replied. “We don’t know where heis.”“I don’t care where he is,” the hook-handed man sneered. “I couldn’t care lessabout that mustached fool! He’s the reason I joined Count Olaf in the first place! Thecaptain was always shouting ‘Aye! Aye! Aye!’ and ordering me around! So I ranaway and joined Olaf’s acting troupe!”“But Count Olaf is a terrible villain!” Fiona cried. “He has no regard for otherpeople. He dreams up treacherous schemes, and lures others into becoming hiscohorts!”“Those are just the bad aspects of him,” the hook-handed man said. “There aremany good parts, as well. For instance, he has a wonderful laugh.”“A wonderful laugh is no excuse for villainous behavior!” Fiona said.“Let’s just agree to disagree,” the hook-handed man replied, using a tiresomeexpression which here means “You’re probably right, but I’m too embarrassed toadmit it.” He waved one hook carelessly at his sister. “Step aside, Fiona. It’s time forthe orphans to tell me where the sugar bowl is.”Olaf’s henchman scraped his hooks together to give them a quick sharpening, andtook one threatening step toward the Baudelaires. Violet and Klaus looked at oneanother in fear, and then at the diving helmet, where they heard their sister giveanother shuddering cough, and knew that it was time to lay their cards on the table, aphrase which here means “reveal themselves honestly to Olaf’s wicked henchman.”“We don’t know where the sugar bowl is,” Violet said.“My sister is telling the truth,” Klaus said.“Do with us what you will, but we won’t be able to tell you anything.”The hook-handed man glared at them, and scraped his hooks together once more.“You’re liars,” he said. “Both of you are rotten orphan liars.”“It’s true, Fernald,” Fiona said. “Aye! Finding the sugar bowl was the Queequeg’smission, but so far we’ve failed.”“If you don’t know where the sugar bowl is, the hook-handed man said angrily,”then putting you in the brig is completely pointless!“ He turned around and kickedhis small stool, toppling it over, and then kicked the wall of the brig for goodmeasure. ”What am I supposed to do now?” he sulked.Fiona put her hand on her brother’s hook. “Take us back to the Queequeg ,” shesaid. “Sunny is in that helmet, along with a growth of Medusoid Mycelium .”“Medusoid Mycelium?” Olaf’s henchman repeated in horror. “That’s a verydangerous fungus!”“She’s in great danger,” Violet said. “If we don’t find a cure very, very soon, she’lldie.”The hook-handed man frowned, but then looked at the helmet and gave thechildren a shrug.“Why should I care if she dies?” he asked. “She’s made my life miserable from thetime I met her. Every time we fail to get the Baudelaire fortune, Count Olaf yells ateveryone!”“You’re the one who made the Baudelaires’ lives miserable,” Fiona said. “CountOlaf has performed countless treacherous schemes, and you helped him time andtime again. Aye! You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”The hook-handed man sighed, and looked down at the floor of the brig.“Sometimes I am,” he admitted. “Life in Olaf’s troupe sounded like it was going tobe glamorous and fun, but we’ve ended up doing more murder, arson, blackmail, andassorted violence than I would have preferred.”“This is your chance to do something noble,” Fiona said. “You don’t have toremain on the wrong side of the schism.”“Oh, Fiona,” the hook-handed man said, and put one hook awkwardly around hershoulder. “You don’t understand. There is no wrong side of the schism.”“Of course there is,” Klaus said. V.F.D. is a noble organization, and Count Olaf isa terrible villain.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 11 - TheGrim Grotto“A noble organization?” the hook-handed man said. “Is that so? Tell that to yourbaby sister, you four-eyed fool! If it weren’t for Volatile Fungus Deportation, younever would have encountered those deadly mushrooms!”The children looked at one another, remembering what they had read in theGorgonian Grotto. They had to admit that Olaf’s henchman was right. But Violetreached into her pocket and drew out the newspaper clipping Sunny had found in thecave. She held it out so everyone could see the Daily Punctilio article that the eldestBaudelaire had kept hidden for so long.“ ‘VERIFYING FERNALD’S DEFECTION,’ ” she said, reading the headline outloud, and then continued by reading the byline, a word which here means “name ofthe person who wrote the article.”“By Jacques Snicket. It has now been confirmed that the fire that destroyedAnwhistle Aquatics, and took the life of famed ichnologist Gregor Anwhistle, was setby Fernald Widdershins, the son of the captain of the Queequeg submarine. TheWiddershins family’s participation in a recent schism has raised several questionsregarding…” Violet looked up and met the glare of Olaf’s henchman. “The rest of thearticle is blurry,” she said, “but the truth is clear. You defected – you abandonedV.F.D. and joined up with Olaf!”“The difference between the two sides of the schism,” Klaus said, “is that one sideputs out fires, and the other starts them.” The hook-handed man reached forward andspeared the article on one of his hooks, and then turned the clipping around so hecould read it again. “You should have seen the fire,” he said quietly. “From adistance, it looked like an enormous black plume of smoke, rising straight out of thewater. It was like the entire sea was burning down.”“You must have been proud of your handiwork,” Fiona said bitterly.“Proud?” the hook-handed man said. “It was the worst day of my life. That plumeof smoke was the saddest thing I ever saw.” He speared the newspaper with his otherhook and ripped the article into shreds. “The Punctilio got everything wrong,” hesaid. “Captain Widdershins isn’t my father. Widdershins isn’t my last name. Andthere’s much more to the fire than that. You should know that the Daily Punctiliodoesn’t tell the whole story, Baudelaires. Just as the poison of a deadly fungus can bethe source of some wonderful medicines, someone like Jacques Snicket can dosomething villainous, and someone like Count Olaf can do something noble. Evenyour parents –”“Our stepfather knew Jacques Snicket,” Fiona said. “He was a good man, butCount Olaf murdered him. Are you a murderer, too? Did you kill Gregor Anwhistle?”In grim silence, the hook-handed man held his hooks in front of the children.“The last time you saw me,” he said to Fiona, “I had two hands, instead of hooks.Our stepfather probably didn’t tell you what happened to me – he always said there weresecrets in this world too terrible for young people to know. What a fool!”“Our stepfather isn’t a fool,” Fiona said. “He’s a noble man. Aye!”“People aren’t either wicked or noble,” the hook-handed man said. “They’re likechef’s salads, with good things and bad things chopped and mixed together in avinaigrette of confusion and conflict.” He turned to the two elder Baudelaires andpointed at them with his hooks. “Look at yourselves, Baudelaires. Do you reallythink we’re so different? When those eagles carried me away from the mountains inthat net, I saw the ruins of that fire in the hinterlands – a fire we started together.You’ve burned things down, and so have I. You joined the crew of the Queequeg ,and I joined the crew of the Carmelita . Our captains are both volatile people, andwe’re both trying to get to the Hotel Denouement before Thursday. The onlydifference between us is the portraits on our uniforms.”“We’re wearing Herman Melville,” Klaus said. “He was a writer of enormoustalent who dramatized the plight of overlooked people, such as poor sailors orexploited youngsters, through his strange, often experimental philosophical prose.I’m proud to display his portrait. But you’re wearing Edgar Guest. He was a writer oflimited skill, who wrote awkward, tedious poetry on hopelessly sentimental topics.You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”“Edgar Guest isn’t my favorite poet,” the hook-handed man admitted. “Before Ijoined up with Count Olaf, I was studying poetry with my stepfather. We used to readto one another in the Main Hall of the Queequeg . But it’s too late now. I can’t returnto my old life.”“Maybe not,” Klaus said. “But you can return us to the Queequeg , so we can saveSunny.”“Please,” the children heard Sunny say, from inside the helmet, although her voicewas quite hoarse, as if she would not be able to speak for much longer, and for amoment the only sound in the brig was Sunny’s desperate coughing as the minutes inher crucial hour ticked away, and the muttering of the hook-handed man as he pacedback and forth, twiddling his hooks in thought.Violet and Klaus watched his hooks, and thought of all the times he had used themto threaten the siblings. It is one thing to believe that people have both good and badinside them, mixed together like ingredients in a salad bowl. But it is quite another tolook at a cohort of a despicable villain, who has tried again and again to cause somuch harm, and try to see where the good parts are buried, when all you canremember is the pain and suffering he has caused. As the hook-handed man circledthe brig, it was as if the Baudelaires were picking through a chef’s salad consistingmostly of dreadful – and perhaps even poisonous – ingredients, trying desperately tofind the one noble crouton that might save their sister, just as I, between paragraphs,am picking through this salad in front of me, hoping that my waiter is more noblethan wicked, and that my sister, Kit, might be saved by the small, herbed piece oftoast I hope to retrieve from my bowl. After much hemming and hawing, however – aphrase which here means “muttering, and clearing of one’s throat, used to avoidmaking a quick decision ” – Count Olaf’s henchman stopped in front of the children,put his hooks on his hips, and offered them a Hobson’s choice.“I’ll return you to the Queequeg ,” he said, “if you take me with you.”C H A P T E REleven“I’m so glad,” the hook-handed man said, giving the two siblings a smile theyfound inscrutable, a word which here means “either pleasant or nasty, but it was hardto tell.”“I have lots of ideas about where we could go after we get off the Carmelita.”“Well, I’d certainly like to hear them,” Fiona said. “Aye!”“Perhaps we could discuss such things later,” Violet said. “I don’t think now is agood time to hesitate.”“Aye!” Fiona said. “She who hesitates is lost!”“Or he,” Klaus reminded her. “We’ve got to get to the Queequeg right away.”The hook-handed man opened the door of the brig and looked up and down thecorridor. “This will be tricky,” he said, beckoning to the children with one of hishooks. “The only way back to the Queequeg is through the rowing room, but thatroom is filled with children we’ve kidnapped. Esmé took my tagliatelle grande and iswhipping them so they’ll row faster.”The elder Baudelaires did not bother to point out that the hook-handed man hadthreatened the Baudelaires with the very same noodle, when the children had workedat Caligari Carnival, along with a few other individuals who had ended up joiningOlaf’s troupe.“Is there any way to sneak past them?” Violet asked.“We’ll see,” Olaf’s henchman said. “Follow me.” The hook-handed man strodequickly down the empty corridor, with Fiona behind him and the two Baudelairesbehind her, carrying the diving helmet in which Sunny still coughed. Violet andKlaus purposefully lagged behind so they might have a word with the mycologist.“Fiona, are you sure you want to take him with us?” Klaus asked, leaning in closeto murmur in her ear. “He’s a very dangerous and volatile man.”“He’s my brother,” Fiona replied in a fierce whisper, “and I’m your captain. Aye!I’m in charge of the Queequeg . So I get to choose its crew.“We know that,” Violet said, “but we just thought you might want to reconsider.”“Never,” Fiona said firmly. “With my stepfather gone, Fernald may be the onlyperson I have left in my family. Would you ask me to abandon my own sibling?”As if replying, Sunny coughed desperately from inside her helmet, and the elderBaudelaires knew that Fiona was right. “Of course we wouldn’t,” Klaus said.“Stop muttering back there,” the hook-handed man ordered, as he led the childrenaround another twist in the corridor. “We’re approaching the rowing room, and wedon’t want anyone to hear us.”The children stopped talking, but as the henchman stopped at the door to therowing room, and held his hook over an eye on the wall which would open the door,Violet and Klaus could hear that there was no reason to be quiet. Even through thethick metal of the rowing room entrance, they could hear the loud, piercing voice ofCarmelita Spats.“For my third dance,” she was saying, “I will twirl around and around while all ofyou clap as hard as you can. It is a dance of celebration, in honor of the mostadorable tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian in the world!”“Please, Carmelita,” begged the voice of a child. “We’ve been rowing for hours.Our hands are too sore to clap.” There was a faint, damp sound, like someonedropping a washcloth, and the elder Baudelaires realized that Esmé was whipping thechildren with her enormous noodle.“You will participate in Carmelita’s recital,” the treacherous girlfriend announced,“or you will suffer the sting of my tagliatelle grande! Ha ha hoity-toity!”“It’s not really a sting,” said one brave child. “It’s more of a mild, wet slap.”“Shut up, cakesniffer!” Carmelita ordered, and the children heard the rustle of herpink tutu as she began to twirl. “Start clapping!” she shrieked, and then the childrenheard a sound they had never heard before.There is nothing wicked about having a dreadful singing voice, any more thanthere is something wicked about having dreadful posture, dreadful cousins, or adreadful pair of pants. Many noble and pleasant people have any number of thesethings, and there are even one or two kind individuals who have them all. But if youhave something dreadful, and you force it upon someone else, then you have donesomething quite wicked indeed. If you force your wicked posture on someone, forinstance, by leaning so far back that they are forced to carry you down the street, thenyou have wickedly ruined their afternoon walk, and if you force your dreadfulcousins on someone, by dropping them off to play at their house so you can escapefrom their dreadful presences and spend some time alone, then you have wickedlyruined their entire day, and only a very wicked person indeed would force a dreadfulpair of pants on the legs and lower torso of somebody else. But to force your dreadfulsinging voice on somebody, or even a crowd of people, is one of the world’s mostwicked crimes, and at that moment Carmelita Spats opened her mouth and afflictedthe crew of the Carmelita with her wickedness. Carmelita’s singing voice was loud,like a siren, and high-pitched, like a squeaky door, and extremely off-pitch, as if all ofthe notes in the musical scale were pushing up against one another, all trying to soundat the same time. Her singing voice was mushy, as if someone had filled her mouthwith mashed potatoes before she sang, and filled with vibrato, which is the Italianterm for a voice that wavers as it sings, as if someone were shaking Carmelita veryvigorously as she began her song. Even the most dreadful of voices can be toleratedif it is performing a good song, but I’m sad to say that Carmelita Spats had writtenthe song herself and that it was just as dreadful as her singing voice.Violet and Klaus were reminded of Prufrock Preparatory School , where they hadfirst met Carmelita. The vice principal of the school, a tedious man named Nero,forced his students to listen to him play the violin for hours, and they realized thisadministrator must have had a powerful influence on Carmelita’s creativity.“C is for ‘cute,’ ” Carmelita sang, “A is for ‘adorable’! R is for ‘ravishing’! M isfor ‘gorgeous’! E is for ‘excellent’! L is for ‘lovable’! I is for ‘I’m the best’! T is for‘talented’! and A is for ‘a tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian’! Now let’sbegin my whole wonderful song all over again!” The song was so irritating, and stingso poorly, that Violet and Klaus almost felt as if they were being tortured after all,particularly as Carmelita kept on singing it, over and over and over.“I can’t stand her voice,” Violet said. “It reminds me of the cawing of the V.F.D.crows.”“I can’t stand the lyrics,” Klaus said. “Someone needs to tell her that ‘gorgeous’does not begin with the letter M.”“I can’t stand the brat,” the hook-handed man said bitterly. “She’s one of thereasons I’d like to leave. But this sounds like as good a time as any to try to sneakthrough this room. There are plenty of pillars to hide behind, and if we walk aroundthe very edge, where each oar sticks through the wall into the tentacles of theoctopus, we should be able to get to the other door – assuming everybody is watchingCarmelita ‘s tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian dance recital.”“That seems like a very risky plan,” Violet said.“This is no time to be a coward,” the hook-handed man growled. “My sister is nota coward,” Klaus said. “She’s just being cautious.”“There’s no time to be cautious!” Fiona said. “Aye! She who hesitates is lost! Aye!Or he! Let’s go!”Without another word, the hook-handed man poked the eye on the wall, and thedoor slid open to reveal the enormous room. As Olaf’s comrade had predicted, therowing children were all facing Carmelita, who was prancing and singing on one sideof the room while Esmé watched with a proud smile on her face and a large noodle inone of her tentacles. With the hook-handed man and Fiona in the lead, the threeBaudelaires – Sunny still in the diving helmet, of course – made their careful wayaround the outside of the room as Carmelita twirled around singing her absurd song.When Carmelita announced what C was for, the children ducked behind one of thepillars. When she told her listeners the meaning of A and R, the children crept pastthe moving oars, taking care not to trip. When she insisted that “gorgeous ” beganwith M, Count Olaf’s henchman pointed one of his hooks at a far door, and whenCarmelita reached E and L, the children ducked behind another pillar, hoping the dimlight of the lanterns would not give them away. When Carmelita announced that shewas the best, and bragged about being talented, Esmé Squalor frowned and turnedaround, blinking underneath the fake eyes of her octopus outfit, and the children hadto flatten themselves on the floor so the villainous girlfriend would not spot them,and when the tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian found it necessary toremind her audience that she was, in fact, a tap-dancing ballerina fairy princessveterinarian, the two elder Baudelaires found themselves ahead of Fiona and thehook-handed man, hiding behind a pillar that was just a few feet from theirdestination.They were just about to inch their way toward the door when Carmelita beganbelting out the last line of her song – “belting out” is a phrase which here means“singing in a particularly loud and particularly irritating voice” – only to stop herselfjust as she was about to begin her whole wonderful song all over again.“C is for – cakesniffers!” she shouted. “What are you doing here?” Violet andKlaus froze, and then saw with relief that the terrible little girl was pointingscornfully at Fiona and the hook-handed man, who were standing awkwardlybetween two oars.“How dare you, Hooky?” Esmé said, fingering her large noodle as if she wanted tostrike him with it. “You’re interrupting a very in recital by an unspeakably darlinglittle girl!”“I’m very sorry, your Esméness,” the hook-handed man said, stepping forward toelaborately bow in front of the wicked girlfriend. “I would sooner lose both hands allover again than interrupt Carmelita when she’s dancing.”“But you did interrupt me, you handicapped cakesniffer!” Carmelita pouted. “NowI have to start the entire recital all over again!”“No!” cried one of the rowing children. “Anything but that! It’s torture!”“Speaking of torture,” the hook-handed man said quickly, “I stopped by to see if Icould borrow your tagliatelle grande. It’ll help me get the Baudelaires to reveal thelocation of the sugar bowl.”Esmé frowned, and fingered the noodle with one tentacle. “I don’t really like tolend things,” she said. “It usually leads to people messing up my stuff.”“Please, ma’am,” Fiona said. “We’re so close to learning the location of the sugarbowl. Aye! We just need to borrow your noodle, so we can return to the brig.”“Why are you helping Hooky?” Esmé said. “I thought you were another goodygoody orphan.”“Certainly not,” the hook-handed man said. “This is my sister, Fiona, and she’sjoining the crew of the Carmelita.”“Fiona isn’t a very in name,” Esmé said. “I think I’ll call her Triangle Eyes. Areyou really willing to join us, Triangle Eyes?”“Aye!” Fiona said. “Those Baudelaires are nothing but trouble.”“Why are you still talking?” demanded Carmelita. “This is supposed to be myspecial tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian dance recital time!”“Sorry, darling,” Esmé said. “Hooky and Triangle Eyes, take this noodle andscram!”The hook-handed man and his sister walked to the center of the room and stooddirectly in front of Esmé and Carmelita, offering a perfect opportunity for the elderBaudelaires to scram, a rude word which here means “slip out of the room unnoticedand walk down the shadowy hallway Olaf had led them down just a little whileearlier.”“Do you think Fiona will join us?” Violet asked.“I don’t think so,” Klaus said. “They told Esmé they’d return to the brig, so they’llhave to go back the way we came.”“You don’t think she’s really joining Olaf’s troupe, do you?” Violet said.“Of course not,” Klaus said. “That was just to give us an opportunity to get out ofthe room. Fiona may be volatile, but she’s not that volatile.”“Of course not,” Violet said, though she didn’t sound very sure.“Of course not,” Klaus repeated, as another ragged cough came from inside thediving helmet. “Hang on, Sunny,” he called to his sister. “You’ll be cured in no time!”Although he tried to sound as confident as he could, the middle Baudelaire had noway of knowing if his words were true – although, I’m happy to say, they were.“How are you going to cure Sunny,” Violet said, “without Fiona?”“We’ll have to research it ourselves,” Klaus said firmly.“We’ll never read her entire mycological library in time to make an antidote,”Violet said.“We don’t have to read the entire library,” Klaus said, as they reached the door tothe Queequeg’s brig. “I know just where to look.”Sunny coughed again, and then began to wheeze, a word which here means “makea hoarse, whistling sound indicating that her throat was almost completely closedup.” The elder Baudelaires could hardly stop themselves from opening the helmet: tocomfort their sister, but they didn’t want to risk getting poisoned themselves.“I hope you’re right,” Violet said, pressing a metal eye on the wall. The door slidopen and the children hurried toward the broken porthole of the submarine.“Sunny’s hour must almost be up.” Klaus nodded grimly, and jumped through theporthole onto the large wooden table.Although it had only been a short while since the children had left the Queequeg ,the Main Hall felt as if it had been abandoned for years. The three balloons tied to thetable legs were beginning to sag, the tidal charts Klaus had studied had fallen to thefloor, and the glass circle Count Olaf had cut in the porthole still lay on the floor. Butthe middle Baudelaire ignored all of these objects, and picked up MushroomMinutiae from the floor.“This book should have information on the antidote,” he said, and turnedimmediately to the table of contents as Violet carried Sunny through the porthole intothe submarine. “Chapter Thirty-Six, The Yeast of Beasts. Chapter Thirty-Seven,Morel Behavior in a Free Society. Chapter Thirty-Eight, Fungible Mold, MoldableFungi. Chapter Thirty-Nine, Visitable Fungal Ditches. Chapter Forty, The GorgonianGrotto.”“That’s it!” Violet said. “Chapter Forty.”Klaus flipped pages as Sunny gave another desperate wheeze, although I wish themiddle Baudelaire could have had the time to return to some of those pages heflipped past. “ ‘The Gorgonian Grotto,’ ” he read, “ ‘located in propinquity toAnwhistle Aquatics, has appropriately wraithlike nomenclature –’ ”“We know all that,”’ Violet said hurriedly. “Skip to the part about the mycelium.”Klaus’s eyes scanned the page easily, having had much practice in skipping theparts of books he found less than helpful. “ ‘The Medusoid Mycelium has a uniqueconducive strategy of, waxing –’ ”“And waning,” interrupted Violet, as Sunny’s wheezing continued to wax. “Skip tothe part about the poison.”“ ‘As the poet says, ‘ ” Klaus read, “ ‘A single spore has such grim power / Thatyou may die within the hour. Is dilution simple? But of course! / Just one small doseof root of horse.’ ”“ ‘Root of horse’?” Violet repeated. “How can a horse have a root?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “Usually antidotes are certain botanical extractions,like pollen from a flower, or the stem of a plant.”“Does ‘dilution’ mean the same thing as ‘antidote?” Violet asked, but before herbrother could answer, Sunny wheezed again, and the diving helmet rocked back andforth as she struggled against the fungus.Klaus looked at the book he was holding, and then at his sister, and then reachedinto the waterproof pocket of his uniform.“What are you doing?” Violet asked.“Getting my commonplace book,” Klaus replied. “I wrote down all theinformation on the history of Anwhistle Aquatics that we found in the grotto.”“We don’t have time to look at your research!” Violet said. “We need to find anantidote this very minute! Fiona’s right – He or she who hesitates is lost.”Klaus shook his head. “Not necessarily,” he said, and flipped a page of his darkblue notebook. “If we take one moment to think, we might save our sister. Now, whatdid Kit Snicket write in that letter? Here it is: ‘The poisonous fungus you insist oncultivating in the grotto will bring grim consequences for all of us. Our factory atLousy bane can provide some dilution of the mycelium’s destructive respiratorycapabilities…’ That’s it! V.F.D. was making something in a factory near Lousy Lanethat could dilute the effects of the mycelium.”“Lousy Lane?” Violet said. “That was the road to Uncle Monty’s house. It had aterrible smell, remember? It smelled like black pepper. No, not black pepper…”Klaus looked at his commonplace book, and then at Mushroom Minutiae.“Horseradish,” he said quietly. “The road smelled like horseradish! ‘Root of horse’!Horseradish is the antidote!”Violet was already striding to the kitchen. “Let’s hope Phil likes to cook withhorseradish,” she said, and pushed open the door.Klaus picked up the wheezing helmet and followed her into the tiny kitchen. Therewas scarcely enough room for the children to stand in the small space between thestove, the refrigerator, and two wooden cabinets. “The cabinets must serve as apantry,” Klaus said, using a word which here means “place where antidotes arehopefully stored.” “Horseradish should be there – if he has it.”The elder Baudelaires shuddered, not wanting to think about what would happento Sunny if horseradish were not found on the shelves. Within moments, however,Violet and Klaus had to consider that very thing. Violet opened one cupboard, andKlaus opened another, but the children saw immediately that there was nohorseradish.“Gum,” Violet said faintly. “Boxes and boxes of gum Phil brought from thelumbermill, and nothing else. Did you find anything, Klaus?”Klaus pointed to a pair of small cans on one shelf of his cupboard, and held up asmall paper bag. “Two cans of water chestnuts,” he said, “and a small bag of sesameseeds.” His fist closed tightly around the bag, and he blinked back tears behind hisglasses. “What are we going to do?”Sunny wheezed once more, a frantic whistle that reminded her siblings of a train’slonely noise as it disappears into a tunnel.“Let’s check the refrigerator,” Violet said. “Maybe there’s horseradish in there.”Klaus nodded, and opened the kitchen’s refrigerator, which was almost as bare asthe pantry. On the top shelf were six small bottles of lemon-lime soda, which Phil hadoffered the children on their first night aboard the Queequeg . On the middle shelfwas a small piece of white, soft cheese, wrapped up in a bit of wax paper. And on thebottom shelf was a large plate, on which was something that made the two siblingsbegin to cry.“I forgot,” Violet said, tears running down her face.“Me too,” Klaus said, taking the plate out of the refrigerator.Phil had used the last of the kitchen’s provisions – a word which here means“cooking supplies” – to prepare a cake. It looked like a coconut cream cake, like Dr.Montgomery used to make, and the two siblings wondered if Sunny, even as a baby,had noticed enough about cooking to help Phil concoct such a dessert. The cake washeavily frosted, with bits of coconut mixed into the thick, creamy frosting, andspelled out in blue frosting on the top, in Phil’s perky, optimistic handwriting, werethree words. “Violet’s Fifteenth Date,” Klaus said numbly. “That’s what the balloonswere for.”“It was my fifteenth birthday,” Violet said. “I turned fifteen sometime when wewere in the grotto, and I forgot all about it.”“Sunny didn’t forget,” Klaus said. “She said she was planning a surprise,remember? We were going to return from our mission in the cave, and celebrate yourbirthday.”Violet slunk to the floor, and lay her head against Sunny’s diving helmet. “Whatare we going to do?” she sobbed. “We can’t lose Sunny. We can’t lose her!”“There must be something we can use,” Klaus said, “as a substitute forhorseradish. What could it be?”“I don’t know!” Violet cried. “I don’t know anything about cooking!”“Neither do I!” Klaus said, crying as hard as his sister. “Sunny’s the one whoknows!”The two weeping Baudelaires looked at one another, and then steeled themselves,a phrase which here means “summoned up as much strength as they could.” Then,without another word, they opened the tiny door of Sunny’s helmet and quicklydragged their sister out, quickly shutting the door behind her so the fungus would notspread. At first, their sister looked completely unchanged, but when the wheezingyoung girl opened her mouth, they could see several gray stalks and caps of thishorrible mushroom, splotched with black as if someone had poured ink into Sunny’smouth. Wheezing horribly, Sunny reached out her tiny arms to each of her siblingsand grabbed their hands. She did not have to utter a word. Violet and Klaus knew shewas begging for help, but there was nothing they could do except ask her onedesperate question.“Sunny,” Violet said, “we’ve researched an antidote. Only horseradish can saveyou. But there’s no horseradish in the kitchen.”“Sunny,” Klaus said, “is there a culinary equivalent of horseradish?”Sunny opened her mouth as if trying to say something, but the elder Baudelairesonly heard the hoarse, whistling sound of air trying to make its way past themushrooms. Her tiny hands curled into fists, and her body twisted back and forth inpain and fear. Finally, she managed to utter one word – a word that many might nothave understood. Some might have thought it was part of Sunny’s personalvocabulary – perhaps her way of saying “I love you,” or even “Farewell, siblings.”Some might have thought it was pure nonsense, just the noises one might make whena deadly fungus has defeated you. But there are many others who would haveunderstood it immediately. A person from Japan would have known she was talkingabout a condiment often served with raw fish and pickled ginger. A chef would haveknown that Sunny was referring to a strong, green root, widely considered theculinary equivalent of horseradish. And Violet and Klaus knew that their sister wasnaming her salvation, a phrase which here means “something that would save herlife,” or “something that would rescue her from the Medusoid Mycelium,” or, mostimportantly, “an item the eldest Baudelaire still had in the waterproof pocket of heruniform, scaled in a tin Sunny had found in an underwater cavern.”“Wasabi,” Sunny said, in a hoarse, mushroom-choked whisper, and she did nothave to say anything more.The expression “the tables have turned” is not one the Baudelaire orphans hadmuch occasion to use, as it refers to a situation that has suddenly been reversed, sothat those who were previously in a powerless position could suddenly findthemselves in a powerful one, and vice versa. For the Baudelaires, the tables hadturned at Briny Beach, when they received news of the terrible fire, and Count Olafsuddenly became a powerful and terrifying figure in their lives. As time went on, thesiblings waited and waited for the tables to turn back, so that Olaf might be defeatedonce and for all and they could find themselves free of the sinister and mysteriousforces that threatened to engulf them, but the tables of the Baudelaires’ lives seemedstuck, with the children always in a position of misery and sorrow while wickednessseemed to triumph all around them. But as Violet hurriedly opened the tin of wasabishe had been keeping in her pocket, and spooned the green, spicy mixture intoSunny’s wheezing mouth, it seemed like the tables might turn after all. Sunny gaspedwhen the wasabi hit her tongue, and the stalks and caps of the Medusoid Myceliumshivered, and seemed to shrink back from the powerful Japanese condiment. Inmoments, the fungus began to wither and fade away, and Sunny’s wheezing fadedinto coughing, and her coughing faded into deep breaths as the youngest Baudelairerallied, a word which here means “regained her strength, and ability to breathe.” Theyoungest Baudelaire hung on tight to her siblings’ hands, and her eyes filled withtears, but Violet and Klaus could see that the Medusoid Mycelium would not triumphover their sister.“It’s working,” Violet said. “Sunny’s breathing is getting stronger.“Yes,” Klaus said. “We’ve turned the tables on that ghastly fungus.”“Water,” Sunny said, and her brother stood up from the kitchen floor and quicklygot his sister a glass of water. Weakly, the youngest Baudelaire sat up and drankdeeply from the glass, and then hugged both her siblings as tightly as she could.“Thank you,” she said. “Saved me.”“You saved yourself,” Violet pointed out. “We had the wasabi this whole time, butwe didn’t think of giving it to you until you told us.”Sunny coughed again, and lay back down on the floor. “Tuckered,” she murmured.“I’m not surprised you’re exhausted,” Violet said. “You’ve been through quite anordeal. Shall we carry you to the barracks so you can rest?”“Rest here,” Sunny said, curling up at the foot of the stove.“Will you really be comfortable on the kitchen floor?” Klaus asked.Sunny opened one exhausted eye and smiled at her siblings. “Near you,” she said.“All right, Sunny,” Violet said, grabbing a dish towel from the kitchen counter, andfolding it into a pillow for her sister. “We’ll be in the Main Hall if you need us.”“What next?” she murmured.“Shh,” Klaus said, putting another dish towel on top of her. “Don’t worry, Sunny.We’ll figure out what to do next.”The Baudelaires tiptoed out of the kitchen, carrying the tin of wasabi. “Do youthink she’ll be all right?” Violet asked.“I’m sure she will,” Klaus said. “After a nap she’ll be as good as new. But weshould eat some of that wasabi ourselves. When we opened the diving helmet, wewere exposed to the Medusoid Mycelium , and we’ll need all of our strength to getaway from Olaf.”Violet nodded, and put a spoonful of wasabi into her mouth, shuddering violentlyas the condiment hit her tongue. “There’s one last spoonful,” Violet said, handing thetin to her brother. “We’d better make sure that diving helmet stays closed until we getour hands on some horseradish and destroy that fungus for good.”Klaus nodded in agreement, closed his eyes, and ate the last of the Japanesecondiment. “If we ever invent that food code we talked about with Fiona,” he said,“the word ‘wasabi’should mean ‘powerful.’ No wonder this cured our sister.”“But now that we’ve cured her,” Violet said, remembering Sunny’s question as shefell asleep, “what next?”“Olaf is next,” Klaus said firmly. “He said he has everything he needs to defeatV.F.D. forever – except the sugar bowl.”“You’re right,” Violet said. “We have to turn the tables on him, and find it beforehe does.”“But we don’t know where it is,” Klaus said. “Someone must have taken it fromthe Gorgonian Grotto.”“I wonder –” Violet said, but she never said what she wondered, because a strangenoise interrupted her. The noise was a sort of whir, followed by a sort of beep,followed by all sorts of noises, and they seemed to be coming from deep within themachinery of the Queequeg . Finally, a green light lit up on a panel in the wall, and aflat, white object began to slither out of a tiny slit in the panel.“It’s paper,” Klaus said.“It’s more than paper,” Violet said, and walked over to the panel. The sheet ofpaper curled into her hand as it emerged from the slit, as if the machine wereimpatient for the eldest Baudelaire to read it. “This is the telegram device. We mustbe receiving –”“A Volunteer Factual Dispatch,” Klaus finished. Violet nodded, and scanned thepaper quickly. Sure enough, the words “Volunteer Factual Dispatch ” were printed onthe top, and as more and more of the paper appeared, the eldest Baudelaire saw that itwas addressed “To the Queequeg ,” with the date printed below, as well as the nameof the person who was sending the telegram, miles and miles away on dry land. Itwas a name Violet almost dared not say out loud, even though she had felt as if shehad been whispering it to herself for days, ever since the icy waters of the StrickenStream had carried away a young man who meant very much to her.“It’s from Quigley Quagmire,” she said quietly.Klaus’s eyes widened in astonishment. “What does he say?” he asked.Violet smiled as the telegram finished printing, her finger touching the Q in herfriend’s name. It was almost as if knowing that Quigley was alive was enough of amessage.“ ‘It is my understanding that you have three additional volunteers on boardSTOP,’ ” she read, remembering that “STOP” indicates the end of a sentence in atelegram. “ ‘We are in desperate need of their services for a most urgent matter STOP.Please deliver them Tuesday to the location indicated in the rhymes below STOP.’ ”She scanned the paper and frowned thoughtfully. “Then there are two poems,” shesaid. “One by Lewis Carroll and the other by T. S. Eliot.”Klaus took his commonplace book out of his pocket, and flipped pages until hefound what he was looking for. “Verse Fluctuation Declaration,” he said. “That’s thecode we learned in the grotto. Quigley must have changed sonic of the words in thepoems, so no one else would know where we’re supposed to meet him. Let’s see ifwe can recognize the changes.”Violet nodded, and read the first poem out loud:“‘O Oysters, come and walk with us!’The Walrus did beseech.‘A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,Along the movie theater.’“That last part sounds wrong,” Violet said.“There were no movie theaters when Lewis Carroll was alive,” Klaus said. “Butwhat are the real words to the poem?”“I don’t know,” Violet said. “I’ve always found Lewis Carroll too whimsical formy taste.”“I like him,” Klaus said, “but I haven’t memorized his poems. Read the other one.Maybe that will help.”Violet nodded, and read aloud:“At the pink hour when the eyes and backTurn upward from the desk, when the human engine waitsLike a pony throbbing party.”The voice of the eldest Baudelaire trailed off, and she looked at her brother inconfusion. “That’s all,” she said. “The poem stops there.”Klaus frowned. “There’s nothing else in the telegram?”“Only a few letters at the very bottom,” she said. “ ‘CC: J.S.’ What does thatmean?”“ ‘CC’ means that Quigley sent a copy of this message to someone else,” Klaussaid, “and ‘J.S.’ are the initials of the person.”“Those mysterious initials again,” Violet said. “It can’t be Jacques Snicket,because he’s dead. But who else could it be?”“We can’t worry about that now,” Klaus said. “We have to figure out what wordshave been substituted in these poems.”“How can we do that?” Violet asked.“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “Why would Quigley think we would have memorizedthese poems?”“He wouldn’t think that,” Violet said. “He knows us. But the telegram wasaddressed to the Queequeg . He knew that someone on board could decode thepoetry.”“But who?” Klaus asked. “Not Fiona – she’s a mycologist. An optimist like Philisn’t likely to be familiar with T. S. Eliot. And it’s hard to imagine CaptainWiddershins having a serious interest in poetry.”“Not anymore,” Violet said thoughtfully. “But Fiona’s brother said he and thecaptain used to study poetry together.”“That’s true,” Klaus said. “He said they used to read to one another in the MainHall.” He walked over to the sideboard and opened the cabinet, peering at the booksFiona kept inside. “But there’s no poetry here – just Fiona’s mycological library.”“Captain Widdershins wouldn’t keep poetry books out front like that,” Violet said.“He would have kept them secret.”“Just like he kept the secret of what happened to Fiona’s brother,” Klaus said.“He thought there were secrets too terrible for young people to know,” Violet said,“but now we need to know them.”Klaus was silent for a moment, and then turned to his sister. “There’s something Inever told you,” he said. “Remember when our parents were so angry over thespoiled atlas?”“We talked about that in the grotto,” Violet said. “The rain spoiled it when we leftthe library window open.”“I don’t think that’s the only reason they were mad,” Klaus said. “I took that atlasdown from the top shelf – one I could only reach by putting the stepladder on top ofthe chair. They didn’t think I could reach that shelf.”“Why would that make them angry?” Violet asked.Klaus looked down. “That’s where they kept books they didn’t want us to find,” hesaid. “I was interested in the atlas, but when I removed it from the shelf there was awhole row of other books.”“What kind of books?” Violet asked.“I didn’t get a good look at them,” Klaus said. “There were a few books about war,and I think a few romances. I was too interested in the atlas to investigate any further,but I remember thinking it was strange that our parents had hidden those books.That’s why they were so angry, I think – when they saw the atlas on the window seat,they knew I’d discovered their secret.”“Did you ever look at them again?” Violet said.“I didn’t have a chance,” Klaus said. “They moved them to another hiding place,and I never saw them again.”“Maybe our parents were going to tell us what was in those books when we wereolder,” Violet said.“Maybe,” Klaus agreed. “But we’ll never know. We lost them in the fire.” Theelder Baudelaires sat quietly for a moment, looking at the cabinet in the sideboard,and then, without a word, the two siblings stepped onto the wooden table so theycould open the highest cabinet. Inside was a small stack of books on such dull topicsas child rearing, proper and improper diets, and the water cycle, but when thechildren pushed these books aside they saw what they had been looking for.“Elizabeth Bishop,” Violet said, “Charles Simic, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, FranzWright, Daphne Gottlieb – there’s all sorts of poetry here.”“Why don’t you read T.S. Eliot,” Klaus suggested, handing her a thick, dustyvolume, “and I’ll tackle Lewis Carroll. If we read quickly we should be able to findthe real poems and decode the message.”“I found something else,” Violet said, handing her brother a crumpled square ofpaper. “Look.” Klaus looked at what his sister had given him. It was a photograph,blurred and faded with four people, grouped together like a family. In the center ofthe photograph was a large man with a long mustache that was curved at the end likea pair of parentheses – Captain Widdershins, of course, although he looked muchyounger and a great deal happier than the children had ever seen him. He waslaughing, and his arm was around someone the two Baudelaires recognized as thehook-handed man, although he was not hook-handed in the photograph – both of hishands were perfectly intact, one resting on the captain’s shoulder, and the otherpointing at whoever was taking the picture – and he was young enough to still becalled a teenager, instead of a man. On the other side of the captain was a womanwho was laughing as hard as the captain, and in her arms was a young infant with atiny set of triangular glasses.“That must be Fiona’s mother,” Klaus said, pointing at the laughing woman.“Look,” Violet said, pointing to the wall behind the family. “This was taken onboard the Queequeg . That’s the edge of the plaque with the captain’s personalphilosophy – ‘He who hesitates is lost.’ ”“The whole family is lost, almost,” Klaus said quietly. “Fiona’s mother is dead.Her brother joined Count Olaf’s troupe. And who knows where her stepfather is?” Heput down the photograph, opened his commonplace book, and flipped to thebeginning, where he had pasted another photograph taken long ago. This photographalso had four people in it, although one of the people was facing away from thecamera, so it was impossible to tell who it was. The second person was JacquesSnicket, who of course was long dead. And the other two people were the Baudelaireparents. Klaus had kept this photograph ever since the children found it at HeimlichHospital , and had looked at it every day, gazing into his parents’ faces and readingthe one sentence, over and over, that had been typed below it. “Because of theevidence discussed on page nine,” the sentence read, “experts now suspect that theremay in fact be one survivor of the fire, but the survivor’s whereabouts are unknown.”For quite some time, the Baudelaires had thought this meant one of their parentswas alive after all, but now they were almost certain it meant no such thing. Violetand Klaus looked from one photograph to the other, imagining a time when no one inthe pictures was lost, and everyone was happy.Klaus sighed, and looked at his sister. “Maybe we shouldn’t be hesitating here,”Klaus said. “Maybe we should be rescuing our captain, instead of reading books ofpoetry and looking at old photographs. I don’t want to lose Fiona.”“Fiona’s safe with her brother,” Violet said, “and I’m sure she’ll join us when shecan. We need to decode this message, or we might lose everything. In this case, he orshe who doesn’t hesitate is lost.”“What if we decode the message before Fiona arrives?” Klaus asked. “Do we waitfor her to join us?”“We wouldn’t have to,” Violet said. “The three of us could properly operate thissubmarine by ourselves. All we’d need to do is repair the porthole, and we couldprobably steer the Queequeg out of the Carmelita .”“We can’t abandon her here,” Klaus said. “She wouldn’t abandon us.”“Are you sure?” violet asked.Klaus sighed, and looked at the photograph again. “No,” he said. “Let’s get towork.”Violet nodded in agreement, and the two Baudelaires shelved the discussion – aphrase which here means “temporarily stopped their conversation” and unshelved thepoetry books in order to get to work on decoding Quigley’s Verse FluctuationDeclarations. It had been some time since the Baudelaires had been able to read in acomfortable place, and the children were pleased to find themselves silently flippingpages, searching for certain words, and even taking a few notes. Reading poetry, evenif you are only reading to find a secret message hidden within its words, can oftengive one a feeling of power, the way you can feel powerful if you are the only onewho brought an umbrella on a rainy day, or the only one who knows how to untieknots when you’re taken hostage. With each poem the children felt more and morepowerful – or, as they might have said in their food code, more and more wasabi –and by the time the two volunteers were interrupted they felt as if the tables justmight be continuing to turn.“Snack!” announced a cheerful voice below them, and Violet and Klaus werepleased to see their sister emerging from the kitchen carrying a small plate.“Sunny!” Violet cried. “We thought you were asleep.”“Rekoop,” the youngest Baudelaire said, which meant something along the linesof, “I had a brief nap, and when I woke up I felt well enough to cook something.”“I am a bit hungry,” Klaus admitted. “What did you make us?”“Amuse bouche,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “Tiny water chestnutsandwiches, with a spread of cheese and sesame seeds.”“They’re quite tasty,” Violet said, and the three children shared the plate of amusebouche as the elder Baudelaires brought Sunny up to speed, a phrase which heremeans “told their sister what had happened while she was suffering inside the divinghelmet.” They told her about the terrible villain they encountered inside. Theydescribed the hideous circumstances in which the Snow Scouts found themselves,and the hideous clothing worn by Esmé Squalor and Carmelita Spats. They told herabout the Volunteer Factual Dispatch, and the Verse Fluctuation Declarations theywere trying to decode. And, finally, they told her about the hook-handed man beingFiona’s long-lost brother, and the possibility that he might join them aboard theQueequeg . “Perifido,” Sunny said, which meant “It would be foolish to trust one ofOlaf’s henchmen.”“We don’t trust him,” Klaus said. “Not really. But Fiona trusts him, and we trustFiona.”“Volatile,” Sunny said.“Yes,” Violet admitted, “but we don’t have much choice. We’re in the middle ofthe ocean –”“And we need to get to the beach,” Klaus said, and held up the book of LewisCarroll’s poetry. “I think I’ve solved part of the Verse Fluctuation Declaration. LewisCarroll has a poem called ‘The Walrus and the Carpenter.’ ”A Series of Unfortunate Events 11 - TheGrim Grotto“There was something about a walrus in the telegram,” Violet said.“Yes,” Klaus said. “It took me a while to find the specific stanza, but here it is.Quigley wrote:‘O Oysters, come and walk with us!’The Walrus did beseech.‘A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,Along the movie theater.’ ““Yes,” Violet said. “But what does the actual poem say?”Klaus read,“‘O Oysters, come and walk with us!’The Walrus did beseech.‘A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,Along the briny beach.’ “Klaus closed the book and looked up at his sisters. “Quigley wants us to meet himtomorrow,” he said, “at Briny Beach .”“Briny Beach ,” Violet repeated quietly. The eldest Baudelaire did not have toremind her siblings, of course, of the last time they were at Briny Beach , learningfrom Mr. Poe that the tables of their lives had turned. The three siblings sat andthought of that terrible day, which felt as blurred and faded as the photograph ofFiona’s family – or the photograph of their own parents, pasted into Klaus’scommonplace book. Returning to Briny Beach after all this time felt to theBaudelaires like an enormous step backward, as if they would lose their parents andtheir home again, and Mr. Poe would take them once more to Count Olaf’s house,and all the unfortunate events would crash over them once more, like the waves ofthe ocean crashing on the tidepools of Briny Beach and the tiny, passive creatureswho lived inside them.“How would we get there?” Klaus asked.“In the Queequeg ,” Violet said. “This submarine should have a location device,and once we know where we are, I think I could set a course for Briny Beach.”“Distance?” Sunny asked.“It shouldn’t be far,” Klaus said. “I’d have to check the charts. But what would wedo when we got there?”“I think I have the answer to that,” Violet said, turning to her book of T. S. Eliotpoems. “Quigley used lines from a very long poem in this book called The WasteLand.”“I tried to read that,” Klaus said, “but I found T. S. Eliot too opaque. I scarcelyunderstood a word.”“Maybe it’s all in code,” Violet said. “Listen to this. Quigley wrote:‘At the pink hour when the eyes and backTurn upward from the desk, when the human engine waitsLike a pony throbbing party.’“But the real poem reads:“At the violet hour when the eyes and backTurn upward from the desk, when the human engine waitsLike a –”“Blah blah blah ha ha ha !” interrupted a cruel, mocking voice. “Ha blah ha blahha blah! Tee hee snaggle sniggle tee hee hee! Hubba hubba giggle diddledenouement!”The Baudelaires looked up from their books to face Count Olaf, who was alreadystepping through the porthole and onto the wooden table. Behind him was EsméSqualor, sneering beneath the hood of her octopus outfit, and the children could hearthe unpleasant slapping footsteps of the horrid pink shoes of Carmelita Spats, whopeeked her heart-decorated face into the submarine and giggled nastily.“I’m happier than a pig eating bacon!” Count Olaf cried. “I’m tickled pinker than asunburned Caucasian! I’m in higher spirits than a brand-new graveyard! I’m sohappy-go-lucky that lucky and happy people are going to heat me with sticks out ofpure, unbridled jealousy! Ha ha jicama! When I stopped by the brig to see how myassociate was progressing, and found that you orphans had flown the coop, I wasafraid you were escaping, or sabotaging my submarine, or even sending a telegramasking for help! But I should have known you were too dim-witted to do anythinguseful! Look at yourselves, orphans, snacking and reading poetry, while the powerfuland good-looking people of the world cackle in triumph! Cackle cackle cutthroat!”“In just a few minutes,” Esmé bragged, “we will arrive at the Hotel Denouement,thanks to our bratty rowing crew. Tee hee triumphant! V.F.D.‘s last safe place willsoon be in ashes – just like your home, Baudelaires!”“I’m going to do a special tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian dancerecital,” Carmelita bragged, “on the graves of all those volunteers!” Carmelita leapedthrough the porthole, her pink tutu fluttering as if it were trying to escape, and joinedOlaf on the table to begin a dance of triumph. “C is for ‘cute!’, ” Carmelita sang, “Ais for ‘adorable’! R is for ‘ravishing’! M is for ‘gor–’ ”“Now, now, Carmelita,” Count Olaf said, giving the tap-dancing ballerina fairyprincess veterinarian a tense smile. “Why don’t you save your dance recital for later?I’ll buy you all the dance costumes in the world. With V.F.D. out of the way, all thefortunes of the world can be mine – the Baudelaire fortune, the Quagmire fortune, theWiddershins fortune, the –”“Where is Fiona?” Klaus asked, interrupting the villain. “What have you done withher? If you’ve hurt her –”“Hurt her?” Count Olaf asked, his eyes shining bright beneath his one scragglyeyebrow. “Hurt Triangle Eyes? Why would I hurt a clever girl like that? Tee heetroupe member!” With one of his tiresome dramatic gestures, Count Olaf pointedbehind him, and Esmé clapped the tentacles of her outfit as two people appeared inthe porthole. One was the hook-handed man, who looked as wicked as he ever had.And the other was Fiona, who looked slightly different. One difference was theexpression on her face, which looked resigned, a word which here means “as if themycologist had given up entirely on defeating Count Olaf.” But the other differencewas printed on the slippery-looking uniform she was wearing, right in the center.“No,” Klaus said quietly, as he stared at his friend.“No,” Violet said firmly, and looked at Klaus.“No!” Sunny said angrily, and bared her teeth as Fiona stepped through theporthole and stood beside Count Olaf on the wooden table.Her boot brushed against the poetry books Violet and Klaus had taken from thesideboard, including books by Lewis Carroll and T. S. Eliot. There are some who saythat the poetry of Lewis Carroll is too whimsical, a word which here means “full ofcomic nonsense,” and other people complain that T. S. Eliot’s poetry is too opaque,which refers to something that is unnecessarily complicated. But while everyone maynot agree on the poets represented on the wooden table, every noble reader in theworld agrees that the poet represented on Fiona’s uniform was a writer of limitedskill, who wrote awkward, tedious poetry on hopelessly sentimental topics.“Yes,” Fiona said quietly, and the Baudelaire orphans looked up at the portrait ofEdgar Guest, smiling on the front of her uniform, and felt the tables turn once more.C H A P T E RThirteenThe water cycle consists of three phenomena – evaporation, precipitation, andcollection – and collection, the third of these phenomena, is the third of thephenomena that make up what is generally known as “the water cycle.” Thisphenomenon, known as “collection,” is the process of the gathering of water in theoceans, lakes, rivers, ponds, reservoirs, and puddles of the world, so that it willeventually go through the phenomena of evaporation and precipitation, thusbeginning the water cycle all over again. It is a tedious thing for a reader to find in abook, of course, and I hope that my descriptions of the water cycle have bored youenough that you have put this book down long ago, and will not read ChapterThirteen of The Grim Grotto any more than the Baudelaire orphans will ever readChapter “Thirty-Nine of Mushroom Minutiae , no matter how crucial such a chaptermight be. But however tedious the water cycle is to readers, it must be very tediousindeed to the drops of water who must participate in the cycle over and over again.Occasionally, when I pause while writing my chronicle of the Baudelaire orphans,and my eyes and back turn upward from my desk to look out at the evening sky – thepurple color of which explains the expression ”the violet hour” – I imagine myself asa drop of water, especially if it is raining, or if my desk is floating in a reservoir. Ithink of how ghastly it would feel to be yanked away from my comrades, when wewere gathered in a lake or puddle, and forced into the sky through the process ofevaporation. I think how terrible it would feel to be chased out of a cloud by theprocess of precipitation, and tumble to the earth like a sugar bowl. And I think ofhow heartbroken I would feel to gather once more in a body of water and feel, duringthe process of collection, that I had reached the last safe place, only to have the tablesturn, and evaporate into the sky once more as the tedious cycle started all over again.It is awful to contemplate this sort of life, in which one would always be forced intomotion by a variety of mysterious and powerful forces, never staying anywhere forlong, never finding a safe place one could call home, never able to turn the tables forvery long, just as the Baudelaire orphans found it awful to contemplate their ownlives as Fiona betrayed them, as so many of their companions had betrayed thembefore, just when it seemed they might break out of the tedious cycle of unfortunateevents in which they found themselves trapped.“Tell them, Triangle Eyes,” Count Olaf said with a wicked smile. “Tell theBaudelaires that you’ve joined up with me.”“It’s true,” Fiona said, but behind her triangular glasses her eyes were downcast, aword which here means “looking sadly at the floor.” “Count Olaf said that if I helpedhim destroy the last safe place, he’d help me find my stepfather.”“But Count Olaf and your stepfather are enemies!” Violet cried. “They’re onopposite sides of the schism.”“I wouldn’t be so sure about that,” Esmé Squalor said, her suction cups draggingalong the floor as she stepped through the broken porthole. “After all, CaptainWiddershins abandoned you. Maybe he’s decided volunteers are out – and we’re in .”“My brother, my stepfather, and I could be together again,” Fiona said quietly.“Don’t you understand, Baudelaires?”“Of course they don’t understand!” Count Olaf cried. “Ha ha half-wits! Thosebrats spend their lives reading books instead of chasing after fortunes! Now, let’sremove all the valuables from the Queequeg and we’ll lock the orphans up in thebrig!”“You won’t get away from us this time!” the hook-handed man said, taking thetagliatelle grande from behind his back and whirling the noodle in the air.“We didn’t get away from you last time,” Klaus said. “You helped us sneak overhere, to save Sunny. You said you wanted to come with us when we escaped in theQueequeg and joined V.F.D. at the last safe place.”“V.F.D.,” the hook-handed man sneered. With one scornful flick of his hook hepopped one of the balloons Phil had used to decorate the Main Hall for Violet’sbirthday. “All those silly volunteers with their precious libraries and complicatedcodes – they’re fools, every last one of them. I don’t want to sit around readingidiotic books! He who hesitates is lost!”“Or she,” Fiona said. “Aye!”“Yes,” Count Olaf said, “let’s not hesitate a moment longer, Hooky. Let’s tour thissubmarine and steal anything we want!”“I want to come, too!” Esmé said. “I need a new fashionable outfit!”“Of course, boss,” the hook-handed man said, walking toward the door of the MainHall. “Follow me.”“No, you follow me!” Count Olaf said, pushing ahead of him. “I’m in charge!”“But Countie,” Carmelita whined, jumping off the wooden table and twirlingaround awkwardly. “I want to go first because I’m a tap-dancing ballerina fairyprincess veterinarian!”“Of course you get to go first, precious,” Esmé said. “You get whatever youradorable little heart desires, right Olaf?” “I guess so,” Olaf muttered.“And tell Triangle Eyes to stay here and guard the orphans,” Carmelita said. “Idon’t want her to take all the good stuff for herself.”“Guard the orphans, Triangle Eyes,” Count Olaf said. “Although I don’t think youorphans really need to be guarded. After all, there’s nowhere for you to go! Tee heetraction!”“Giggle giggle gaudy!” Carmelita cried, leading the way out of the Main Hall.“Ha ha hair trigger!” Esmé screamed, following her.“Tee hee tonsillectomy!” Count Olaf shrieked, walking behind his girlfriend.“I also find this amusing!” the hook-handed man yelled, and slammed the doorbehind him, leaving the Baudelaires alone with Fiona.“Traitor,” Sunny said.“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “Don’t do this, Fiona. There’s still time to changeyour mind, and stay on the noble side of the schism.”“We received a Volunteer Factual Dispatch,” Klaus said, holding up the telegram.“ V.F.D. is in desperate need of our services for a most urgent matter. We’re meetingthe volunteers at Briny Beach . You could come with us, Fiona.”“Greenhut!” Sunny cried. She meant something like, “You could be of enormoushelp,” but Fiona didn’t even wait for a translation.“You wouldn’t abandon your sister,” the mycologist said. “Aye! You risked yourlives to save Sunny. How can you ask me to abandon my brother?”“Your brother is a wicked person,” Violet said.“People aren’t either wicked or noble,” Fiona said. “They’re like chef’s salads.”Klaus picked up the photograph from the table and handed it to Fiona. “Thisdoesn’t look like a chef’s salad to me,” he said. “It looks like a family. Is this whatyour family would have you do, Fiona? Send three children to the brig, while youhelp a villain in his treacherous schemes?”Fiona looked at the picture, and blinked back tears behind her triangular glasses.“My family is lost,” she said. “Aye! My mother is dead. Aye! My father moved away.Aye! My stepfather has abandoned me. Aye! My brother may not be as wonderful asyou Baudelaires, but he is the only family I have. Aye! I’m staying with him. Aye!”“Stay with him if you must,” Violet said, “but let us go.”“Rendezvous,” Sunny said.“Take us to Briny Beach ,” Klaus translated. “We might be on opposite sides of theschism, Fiona, but that doesn’t mean we can’t help one another.”Fiona sighed, and looked first at the Baudelaires and then at the photograph of herfamily. “I could turn my back,” she said, “instead of guarding you.”“And we could take the Queequeg ,” Violet said, “and escape.”Fiona frowned, and put the photograph back down on the table. “If I let you go toBriny Beach ,” she said, “what will you do for me?”“I’ll teach you how to repair submarines,” Violet said, gesturing to the telegramdevice. “You could restore the Queequeg to its former glory.”“I don’t need the Queequeg anymore,” Fiona said. “Aye! I’m part of the crew ofthe Carmelita .”“I’ll give you my commonplace book,” Klaus said, holding out his dark bluenotebook. “It’s full of important secrets.”“Count Olaf knows more secrets than you’ll ever learn,” Fiona replied.“Mmph!” The children looked down and saw Sunny, who had slipped away whilethe others were talking, and was now walking unsteadily back through the doormarked KITCHEN, dragging her diving helmet.“Don’t touch that, Sunny!” Violet cried. “There’s a very dangerous fungus inthere, and we don’t have any more antidote!”“Mycelo,” Sunny said, and lay the helmet at Fiona’s feet.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said, looking at the helmet and shuddering. “Inside thathelmet is the bugaboo of the mycological pantheon – the Medusoid Mycelium .”“I thought you destroyed it,” Fiona said.“No,” Violet said. “The Medusoid Mycelium grows best in an enclosed space. Yousaid that the poison of a deadly fungus can be the source of some wonderfulmedicines. This is a very valuable specimen for a mycologist like yourself.”“That’s true,” Fiona admitted quietly, and looked down at the helmet.The Baudelaires looked down, too, remembering their terrible journey through thegrotto. They remembered how cold and dark it was when they left the Queequeg anddrifted through the cavern, and the horrifying sight of the Medusoid Myceliumtrapping them in the eerie cave until the stalks and caps waned away. Theyremembered their chilly journey back to the submarine, and the dreadful discoveriesof the missing crew and the mushrooms sprouting inside Sonny’s helmet, and theimage of the octopus submarine on the sonar screen, and the villain who was waitingfor them when they tumbled inside.“We’re back!” Count Olaf announced, bursting back into the Main Hall with hiscomrades behind him. Esmé and Carmelita were peeking into a small, shiny box, andthe hook-handed man was staggering under the weight of the uniforms and divinghelmets he was carrying.“There wasn’t much to steal, I’m afraid – this submarine is not quite up to itsformer glory. Still, I found a small jewelry box hidden in the barracks, with a fewvaluable items.”“I think the ruby ring is very in ,” Esmé purred. “It would look wonderful with myflame-imitating dress.”“That was my mother’s,” Fiona said quietly.“She would have wanted me to have it Esmé said quickly. ”We were close friendsat school.”“I want the necklace!” Carmelita demanded. “It goes perfectly with myveterinarian stethoscope! Give it to me, Countie!”“I wish we had those carnival freaks with us,” the hook-handed man said. “Theycould help carry some of these uniforms.”“We’ll see them at the Hotel Denouement,” said Count Olaf, “along with the restof my comrades. Well, let’s get out of here! We have lots to do before we arrive!Triangle Eyes, take the orphans to the brig! Ha ha hula dance!”Humming a ridiculous tune, the villain performed a few dance steps of triumph,only to stumble over the diving helmet on the floor. Carmelita giggled nastily as Olafreached down and rubbed his tattooed ankle. “Ha, ha Countie!” cried Carmelita. “Mydance recital was better than yours!”“Get this hat out of here, Triangle Eyes,” Count Olaf snarled. He bent down,picked up the helmet, and started to hand it to Fiona, but the hook-handed manstopped him.“I think you’ll want that helmet for Yourself, boss,” the henchman said.“I prefer a smaller, lighter hat,” Count Olaf said, “but I appreciate the gesture.”“What my brother means,” Fiona explained, “is that inside this helmet is theMedusoid Mycelium .”The Baudelaires gasped and looked at one another in horror, as Count Olaf peeredthrough the helmet’s tiny window, his eyes wide beneath his eyebrow. “TheMedusoid Mycelium ,” he murmured, and ran his tongue thoughtfully along his teeth.“Could it be?”“Impossible,” Esmé. Squalor said. “That fungus was destroyed long ago.”“They brought it with them,” the hook-handed man said. “That’s why the babywas so sick.”“This is marvelous,” Olaf said, his voice as raspy and wheezy as if he werepoisoned himself. “As soon as you Baudelaires are in the brig, I’m going to open thishelmet and toss it inside! You’ll suffer as I’ve always wanted you to suffer.”“That’s not what we should do!” Fiona cried. “That’s a very valuable specimen!”Esmé stepped forward and draped two of her tentacles around Olaf’s neck.“Triangle Eyes is right,” she said. “You don’t want to waste the fungus on theorphans. Besides, you need one of them alive to get the fortune.”“That’s true,” Olaf agreed, “but the idea of those orphans not being able to breatheis awfully attractive.”“But think of the fortunes we can steal!” Esmé said. “Think of the people we canboss around! With the Medusoid Mycelium in our grasp, who can stop us now?”“No one!” Count Olaf cackled in triumph. “Ha hunan chicken! Ha hahamantaschen! Ha ha hors d’oeuvres! Ha ha h –”But the Baudelaire children never learned what ridiculous word Olaf was going toutter, as he interrupted himself to point across the Main Hall at a screen on the wall.The screen looked like a piece of graph paper, lit up in green light, and at the centerwere both a glowing letter Q, representing the Queequeg , and a glowing eye,representing the terrible octopus submarine that had devoured them. But at the top ofthe screen was another shape – one they had almost forgotten about. It was a longcurved tube, with a small circle at the end of it, slithering slowly down the screen likea snake, or an enormous question mark, or some terrible evil the children could noteven imagine.“What’s that cakesniffing shape?” asked Carmelita Spats. “It looks like a bigcomma.”“Shh!” Count Olaf hissed, putting his filthy hand over Carmelita’s mouth.“Silence, everyone!”“We have to get out of here,” Esmé murmured. “This octopus is no match for thatthing.”“You’re right,” Olaf muttered. “Esmé, go whip our rowers so they’ll go faster!Hooky, store those uniforms! Triangle Eyes, take the orphans to the brig!”“What about me?” Carmelita asked. “I’m the cutest, so I should get to dosomething.”“I guess you’d better come with me,” the count said wearily. “But no tap-dancing!We don’t want to show up on their sonar!”“Ta ta, cakesniffers!” Carmelita said, waving her pink wand at the three siblings.“You’re so stylish, darling,” Esmé said. “It’s like I always say: You can’t be toorich or too in !” The two wicked females jumped through the broken porthole and outof the Queequeg , followed by the hook-handed man, who gave the Baudelaires anawkward wave.But before Count Olaf exited, he paused, standing on the wooden table, and drewhis long, sharp sword to point at the children. “Your luck is over at last,” he said, in aterrible voice. “For far too long, you keep defeating my plans and escaping from myclutches – a happy cycle for you orphans and an unprofitable one for me. But now thetables have turned, Baudelaires. You’ve finally run out of places to run. And as soonas we get away from that” – he pointed at the sonar screen with a flick of his sword,and raised his eyebrow menacingly – “you’ll see that this cycle has finally beenbroken. You should have given up a long time ago, orphans. I triumphed the momentyou lost your family.”“We didn’t lose our family,” Violet said. “Only our parents.”“You’ll lose everything, orphans,” Count Olaf replied. “Wait and see.” Withoutanother word, he leaped out of the porthole and disappeared into his ghastlymechanical octopus, leaving the Baudelaires alone with Fiona.“Are you going to take us to the brig?” Klaus asked.“No,” Fiona said. “Aye! I’ll let you escape – if you can. You’d better hurry.”“I can set a course,” Violet said, “and Klaus can read the tidal charts.”“Serve cake,” Sunny said.Fiona smiled, and looked around the Main Hall sadly. “Take good care of theQueequeg ,” she said. “I’ll miss it. Aye!”“I’ll miss you,” Klaus said. “Won’t you come with us, Fiona? Now that Olaf hasthe Medusoid Mycelium , we’ll need all the help we can get. Don’t you want to finishthe submarine’s mission? We never found the sugar bowl. We never found yourstepfather. We never even finished that code we were going to invent.”Fiona nodded sadly, and walked to the wooden table. She picked up MushroomMinutiae , and then acted contrary to her personal philosophy, a phrase which heremeans “hesitated for a moment, and faced the middle Baudelaire.”“When you think of me,” she said quietly, “think of a food you love very much.”She leaned forward, kissed Klaus gently on the mouth, and disappeared through theporthole without so much as an “Aye!”The three Baudelaires listened to the mycologist’s footsteps as she joined CountOlaf and his comrades, and left them behind. “She’s gone,” Klaus said, as if he couldhardly believe it himself. He lifted one trembling hand to his face, as if Fiona hadgiven him a slap instead of a kiss. “How could she leave?” he asked. “She betrayedme. She betrayed all of us. How could someone so wonderful do something soterrible?”“I guess her brother was right,” Violet said, putting her arm around her brother.“People aren’t either wicked or noble.”“Correctiona,” Sunny said, which meant “Fiona was right, too – we’d better hurryif we want to escape from the Carmelita before Olaf notices we’re not in the brig.”“I’ll set a course for Briny Beach ,” Violet said.Klaus took one last look at the porthole where Fiona had disappeared, and nodded.“I’ll look at the tidal charts,” he said.“Amnesi!” Sunny cried. She meant something along the lines of, “You’reforgetting something!” and pointed one small finger at the circle of glass on the floor.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “We can’t launch the submarine without repairing thatporthole, or we’ll drown.”But Violet was already halfway up the rope ladder that led to the Queequeg’scontrols. “You’ll have to repair that yourself, Sunny,” she called down.“Cook,” Sunny replied. “Cook and teeth.”“We don’t have time to argue,” Klaus said grimly, pointing at the sonar screen.The question mark was inching closer and closer to the glowing Q.“Aye,” Sunny said, and hurried to the glass circle on the floor. It was still intact,but the youngest Baudelaire could think of nothing that could reattach the circle tothe wall of the submarine.“I think I’ve found the location device,” Violet called down from the Queequeg’scontrols. Quickly she flipped a switch, and waited impatiently as a screen came tolife. “It looks like we’re fourteen nautical miles southeast of the Gorgonian Grotto.Does that help?”“Aye,” Klaus said, running his finger over one of the charts. “We need to travelstraight north to Briny Beach . It shouldn’t be far. But how are we going to get out ofthe Carmelite?”“I guess we’ll just fire up the engines,” Violet said, “and I’ll try to steer us backthrough the tunnel.”“Have you ever steered a submarine before?” Klaus asked nervously.“Of course not,” Violet said. “We’re in uncharted waters, aye.”“Aye,” Klaus said, and looked proudly up at his sister. The two Baudelaires couldnot help grinning for a moment before Violet pulled a large lever, and the familiar,whirring sound of the Queequeg’s engines filled the Main Hall.“Gangway!” Sunny cried, squeezing past Klaus as she raced toward the kitchen.Violet and Klaus heard their sister fumbling around for a moment, and then theyoungest Baudelaire returned, carrying two boxes the siblings recognized from theirtime in the town of Paltryville. “Gum!” she cried triumphantly, already ripping thewrappers off several pieces and sticking them into her mouth.“Good idea, Sunny,” Violet called. “The gum can act as an adhesive, and stick theporthole back together.”“That thing is getting closer,” Klaus said, pointing to the sonar screen. “We’dbetter get the submarine moving. Sunny can do the repair work while we movethrough the tunnel.”“I’ll need your help, Klaus,” Violet said. “Stand at the porthole and let me knowwhich way to turn. Aye?”“Aye!” Klaus replied.“Aye!” Sunny cried, her mouth full of gum.The elder Baudelaires remembered that their sibling had been too young for gumwhen the children were working at the lumbermill, and they could hardly believe shehad grown up enough to be stuffing handfuls of the sticky substance into her mouth.“Which way do I go?” Violet called from the controls.Klaus peered out of the porthole. “Right!” he called back, and the Queequeglurched to the right, traveling with difficulty in the little water at the bottom of thetunnel. There was an enormous scraping sound, and the Baudelaires heard a loudsplashing from inside one of the pipes. “I mean, left!” Klaus said quickly. “You and Iare facing opposite directions! Left!”“Aye!” Violet cried, and the submarine lurched in the opposite direction. Throughthe porthole, the Baudelaires could see that they were moving away from theplatform where Olaf had first greeted them. Sunny spat a huge wad of gum onto theglass circle, and spread it around with her hands on the circle’s edge.“Right!” Klaus cried, and Violet turned the Queequeg again, narrowly missing aturn in the passageway. The eldest Baudelaire looked nervously at the sonar screen,where the sinister shape was moving closer and closer to them. “Left!” Klaus cried.“Left and down!”The submarine lurched and sank, and through the porthole the middle Baudelairecaught a brief glimpse of the rowing room, with Esmé holding the tagliatelle grandethreateningly in one fake tentacle. Sunny hurriedly stuffed more gum into her mouth,moving her enormous teeth furiously to soften the candy. “Left again!” Klaus cried.“And then a very sharp right when I say ‘Now’!”“Now?” Violet called back.“No,” Klaus said, and held up one hand as Sunny spit more gum onto the glasscircle. “NOW!”The submarine lurched violently to the right, sending several objects tumblingfrom the wooden table. Sunny ducked to avoid being knocked on the head by thepoetry of T.S. Eliot.“Sorry for the bumps,” Violet called, from the top of the rope ladder. “I’m stillgetting the hang of these controls. What’s next?”Klaus peered out of the porthole. “Keep going straight,” he said, “and we shouldexit the octopus.”“Help!” Sunny cried, spreading the rest of the gum on the edge of the circle.Klaus hurried to her side, and Violet raced down the rope ladder to help, leavingthe submarine’s controls alone so the Queequeg would travel in a straight line.Together, the three Baudelaires picked up the glass circle and climbed onto thewooden table so they could put the porthole back together.“I hope it holds,” Violet said. “If it doesn’t,” Klaus said, “we’ll know soonenough.”“On three,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “After I say one and two.”“One! Due!”“Three!” the Baudelaire orphans said in unison, and pressed the glass circleagainst the hole Olaf had cut, smoothing the gum over the crack so that it might holdfirm, just as the Queequeg tumbled out of the mechanical octopus into the chillywaters of the ocean.The Baudelaires pushed against the porthole together, their arms stretched outagainst the glass as if they were trying to keep someone from coming in a door. Afew rivulets – a word which here means “tiny streams of water” – dripped throughthe gum, but Sunny hurriedly patted the sticky substance into place to stop the leaks.Her tiny hands smoothed the gum over the edge of the circle, making sure herhandiwork was strong enough that the children wouldn’t drown, but when she heardher siblings gasp she looked up from her work, looked through the repaired porthole,and stared in amazement at what she saw.In the final analysis – a phrase which here means “after much thought, and somedebate with my colleagues” – Captain Widdershins was wrong about a great manythings. He was wrong about his personal philosophy, because there are plenty oftimes when one should hesitate. He was wrong about his wife’s death, because asFiona suspected, Mrs. Widdershins did not die in a manatee accident. He was wrongto call Phil “Cookie” when it is more polite to call someone by their proper name,and he was wrong to abandon the Queequeg , no matter what he heard from thewoman who came to fetch him. Captain Widdershins was wrong to trust his stepsonfor so many years, and wrong to participate in the destruction of Anwhistle Aquatics,and he was wrong to insist, as he did so many years ago, that a story in The DailyPunctilio was completely true, and to show this article to so many volunteers,including the Baudelaire parents, the Snicket siblings, and the woman I happened tolove. But Captain Widdershins was right about one thing. He was right to say thatthere are secrets in this world too terrible for young people to know, for the simplereason that there are secrets in this world too terrible for anyone to know, whetherthey are as young as Sunny Baudelaire or as old as Gregor Anwhistle, secrets soterrible that they ought to be kept secret, which is probably how the secrets becamesecrets in the first place, and one of those secrets is the long, strange shape theBaudelaire orphans saw, first on the Queequeg’s sonar, and then as they held theporthole in place and stared out into the waters of the sea.Night had fallen – Monday night – so the view outside was very dark, and theBaudelaires could scarcely see this enormous and sinister shape. They could not eventell, just as I will not tell, if it was some horrifying mechanical device, such as asubmarine, or some ghastly creature of the sea. They merely saw an enormousshadow, curling and uncurling in the water, as if Count Olaf’s one eyebrow hadgrown into an enormous beast that was roaming the sea, a shadow as chilling as thevillain’s glare and as dark as villainy itself. The Baudelaire orphans had never seenanything so utterly eerie, and they found themselves sitting still as statues, pressingagainst the porthole in an utter hush. It was probably this hush that saved them, forthe sinister shape curled once more, and began to fade into the blackness of the water.“Shh,” Violet said, although no one had spoken. It was the gentle, low shushingone might do to comfort a baby, crying in the middle of the night over whatevertragedy keeps babies awake in their cribs, and keeps the other members of the baby’sfamily standing vigil, a phrase which here means “keeping nearby, to make sureeveryone is safe.” It does not really mean anything, this shushing sound, and yet theyounger Baudelaires did not ask their sister what she meant, and merely stood vigilwith her, as the shape disappeared into the ocean of the night, and the children weresafe once more.Without a word, Violet took her hands off the glass, climbed off the table, andresumed her place at the Queequeg’s controls. For the rest of their journey, none ofthe children spoke, as if the unearthly spell of that terrible secret shape were stilllingering over them.All night long and into the morning, Violet worked the levers and switches of thesubmarine, to make sure it stayed on course, and Klaus marked their path on thecharts, to make sure they were heading to the right place, and Sunny served slices ofViolet’s birthday cake to her fellow volunteers, but none of the three Baudelairesspoke until a gentle hump! rocked the Queequeg , and the submarine came to a gentlestop. Violet climbed down the rope ladder and ducked underneath a pipe to peerthrough the periscope, just as Captain Widdershins must have peered at theBaudelaires up in the Mortmain Mountains.“We’re here,” she said, and the three Baudelaires left the Main Hall and walkeddown the leaky corridor to the room where they had first climbed aboard thesubmarine.“Valve?” Sunny asked.“We shouldn’t have to activate the valve,” Violet said. “When I looked through theperiscope, I saw Briny Beach , so we can simply climb up the ladder –”“And end up where we were,” Klaus finished, “a long time ago.”Without any further discussion the Baudelaire children climbed up the ladder, theirsteps echoing down the narrow passageway, until they reached the hatch. Violetgrabbed the handle, too, so all three children turned the handle together, and openedthe hatch together, and together they climbed out of the passageway, down theoutside of the submarine, and lowered themselves onto the sand of Briny Beach .It was morning – the same time of morning as the last time the Baudelaire childrenhad been there, receiving the dreadful news about the fire, and it was just as gray andfoggy as that terrible day. Violet even saw a slender, smooth stone on the sand, andpicked it up, just as she had done so long ago, skipping rocks into the water withoutever imagining she would soon be exploring its terrible depths.The siblings blinked in the morning sun, and felt as if some cycle were about tobegin all over again – that once more they would receive terrible news, and that oncemore they would be taken to a new home, only to have surround them once more, ashad happened so many times since their last visit to Briny Beach, just as you mightbe wondering if the Baudelaires’ miserable story will begin all over again for you,with my warning you that if you are looking for happy endings, you would be betteroff reading some other book. It is not a pleasant feeling, to imagine that the tableswill never turn and that a tedious cycle will begin all over again, and it made theBaudelaires feel passive, just as they had in the waters of the Stricken Stream,accepting what was happening without doing anything about it as they looked aroundat the unchanged shore.“Gack!” Sunny said, which meant “Look at that mysterious figure emerging fromthe fog!” and the Baudclaires watched as a familiar shape stopped in front of them,took off a tall top hat, and coughed into a white handkerchief.“Baudelaires!” Mr. Poe said, when he was done coughing. “Egad! I can’t believeit! I can’t believe you’re here!”“You?” Klaus asked, gazing at the banker in astonishment. “You’re the one we’resupposed to meet?”“I guess so,” Mr. Poe said, frowning and taking a crumpled piece of paper from hispocket. “I received a message saying that you’d be here at Briny Beach today.”“Who sent the message?” Klaus asked. Mr. Poe coughed once more, and thenshrugged his shoulders wearily. The children noticed that he looked quite a bit olderthan the last time they had seen him, and wondered how much older they lookedthemselves.“The message is signed J.S.,” Mr. Poe said. “I assume that it’s that reporter fromThe Daily Punctilio – Geraldine Julienne. How in the world did you get here? Wherein the world have you been? I must admit, Baudelaires, I had given up all hope ofever finding you again! It was a shame to think that the Baudelaire fortune would justsit in the bank, gathering interest and dust! Well, never mind that now. You’d bettercome with me – my car’s parked nearby. You have a great deal of explaining to do.”“No,” Violet said.“No?” Mr. Poe said in amazement, and coughed violently into his handkerchief.“Of course you do! You’ve been missing for a very long time, children! It was veryinconsiderate of you to run away without telling me where you were, particularlywhen you’ve been accused of murder, arson, kidnapping, and some assortedmisdemeanors! We’re going to get right in my car, and I’ll drive you to the policestation, and –”“No,” Violet said again, and reached into the pocket of her uniform. She held upthe telegram to her siblings and read:“At the pink hour when the eyes and backTurn upward from the desk, when the human engine waitsLike a pony throbbing party…“That’s what’s in the telegram.” She paused, and scanned the horizon of the beach.Something caught her eye, and she gave her siblings a faint smile. “The real poem,”she said, “goes like this:“At the violet hour when the eyes and backTurn upward from the desk, when the human engine waitsLike a taxi throbbing waiting.”“Verse Fluctuation Declaration,” Klaus said.“Code,” Sunny said.“What are you talking about?” Mr. Poe demanded. “What is going on?”“The missing words,” Violet said to her siblings, as if the coughing banker had notspoken, “are ‘violet,’ ‘taxi,’ and ‘waiting.’ We’re not supposed to go with Mr. Poe.We’re supposed to get into a taxi.” She pointed across the beach, and the childrencould see, scarcely visible in the fog, a yellow car parked at a nearby curb. TheBaudelaires nodded, and Violet turned to address the banker at last. “We can’t gowith you,” Violet said. “There’s something else we need to do.”“Don’t be absurd!” Mr. Poe sputtered. “I don’t know where you’ve been, or howyou got here, or why you’re wearing a picture of Santa Claus on your shirts, but –”“It’s Herman Melville,” Klaus said. “Goodbye, Mr. Poe.”“You are coming with me, young man!” Mr. Poe ordered.“Sayonara,” Sunny said, and the three Baudelaires walked quickly across thebeach, leaving the hanker coughing in astonishment.“Wait!” he ordered, when he put his handkerchief away. “Come back here,Baudelaires! You’re children! You’re youngsters! You’re orphans!” Mr. Poe’s voicegrew fainter and fainter as the children made their way across the sand.“What do you think the word ‘violet’ means?” Klaus murmured to his sister. “Thetaxi isn’t purple.”“More code,” Sunny guessed. “Maybe,” Violet said. “Or maybe Quigley justwanted to write my name.”“Baudelaires!” Mr. Poe’s voice was almost inaudible, as if the Baudelaires had onlydreamed he was there on the beach.“Do you think he’s in the taxi, waiting for us?” Klaus asked.“I hope so,” Violet said, and broke into a run. Her siblings hurried behind her asshe ran across the sand, her boots showering sand with each step. “Quigley,” she saidquietly, almost to herself, and then she said it louder. “Quigley! Quigley!”At last the Baudelaires reached the taxi, but the windows of the car were tinted, aword which here means “darkened, so the children could not see who was inside.”“Quigley?” Violet asked, and flung open the door, but the children ‘s friend wasnot inside the taxi.In the driver’s seat was a woman the Baudelaires had never seen before, dressed ina long, black coat buttoned up all the way to her chin. On her hands were a pair ofwhite cotton gloves, and in her lap were two slim books, probably to keep hercompany while she waited. The woman looked startled when the door opened, butwhen she spied the children she nodded politely, and gave them a very slight smile,as if she were not a stranger at all – also not a friend. The smile she gave them wasone you might give to an associate, or another member of an organization to whichyou belong.“Hello, Baudelaires,” she said, and gave the children a small wave. “Climbaboard.”The Baudelaires looked at one another cautiously. They knew, of course, that oneshould never get into the car of a stranger, but they also knew that such rules do notnecessarily apply in taxis, when the driver is almost always a stranger. Besides, whenthe woman had lifted her hand to wave, the children had spied the name of the booksshe had been reading to pass the time. There were two books of verse: The Walrusand the Carpenter, and Other Poems, by Lewis Carroll, and The Waste Land, by T. S.Eliot. Perhaps if one of the books had been by Edgar Guest, the children might haveturned around and run back to Mr. Poe, but it is rare in this world to find someonewho appreciates good poetry, and the children allowed themselves to hesitate.“Who are you?” Violet asked, finally. The woman blinked, and then gave thechildren her slight smile once more, as if she had expected the Baudelaires to answerthe question themselves.“I’m Kit Snicket,” she said, and the Baudelaire orphans climbed aboard, turningthe tables of their lives and breaking their unfortunate cycle for the very first time.A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate PerilASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the TwelfthThe Penultimate PerilLemony SnicketC H A P T E ROneCertain people have said that the world is like a calm pond, and that anytime aperson does even the smallest thing, it is as if a stone has dropped into the pond,spreading circles of ripples further and further out, until the entire world has beenchanged by one tiny action. If this is true, then the book you are reading now is theperfect thing to drop into a pond. The ripples will spread across the surface of thepond and the world will change for the better, with one less dreadful story for peopleto read and one more secret hidden at the bottom of a pond, where most people neverthink of looking. The miserable tale of the Baudelaire orphans will be safe in thepond’s murky depths, and you will be happier not to read the grim story I havewritten, but instead to gaze at the rippling scum that rises to the top of the world.The Baudelaires themselves, as they rode in the back of a taxi driven by a womanthey scarcely knew, might have been happy to jump into a pond themselves, had theyknown what sort of story lay ahead of them as the automobile made its way amongthe twisting streets of the city where the orphans had once lived. Violet, Klaus, andSunny Baudelaire gazed out of the windows of the car, marveling at how little thecity had changed since a fire destroyed their home, took the lives of their parents, andcreated ripples in the Baudelaires’ lives that would probably never become calm. Asthe taxi turned a corner, Violet saw the market where she and her siblings hadshopped for ingredients to make dinner for Count Olaf, the notorious villain who hadbecome their guardian after the fire. Even after all this time, with Olaf trying schemeafter scheme to get his hands on the enormous fortune the Baudelaire parents had leftbehind, the market looked the same as the day Justice Strauss, a kindly neighbor anda judge in the High Court, had first taken them there. Towering over the market wasan enormous, shiny building that Klaus recognized as 667 Dark Avenue , where theBaudelaires had spent some time under the care of Jerome and Esmé Squalor in anenormous penthouse apartment. It seemed to the middle Baudelaire that the buildinghad not changed one bit since the siblings had first discovered Esmé‘s treacherousand romantic attachment to Count Olaf. And Sunny Baudelaire, who was still smallenough that her view out the window was somewhat restricted, heard the rattle of amanhole cover as the taxi drove over it, and remembered the undergroundpassageway she and her siblings had discovered, which led from the basement of 667Dark Avenue to the ashen remains of their own home. Like the market and thepenthouse, the mystery of this passageway had not changed, even though theBaudelaires had discovered a secret organization known as V.F.D. that the childrenbelieved had constructed many such passageways. Each mystery the Baudelairesdiscovered only revealed another mystery, and another, and another, and severalmore, and another, as if the three siblings were diving deeper and deeper into a pond,and all the while the city lay calm on the surface, unaware of all the unfortunateevents in the orphans’ lives. Even now, returning to the city that was once their home,the Baudelaire orphans had solved few of the mysteries overshadowing them. Theydidn’t know where they were headed, for instance, and they scarcely knew anythingabout the woman driving the automobile except her name.“You must have thousands of questions, Baudelaires,” said Kit Snicket, spinningthe steering wheel with her white-gloved hands. Violet, who had adroit technicalfaculties-a phrase which here means “a knack for inventing mechanical devices”-admired the automobile’s purring machinery as the taxi made a sharp turn through alarge metal gate and proceeded down a curvy, narrow street lined with shrubbery “Iwish we had more time to talk, but it’s already Tuesday. As it is you scarcely havetime to eat your important brunch before getting into your concierge disguises andbeginning your observations as flaneurs.”“Concierge?” Violet asked.“Flaneurs?” Klaus asked.“Brunch?” Sunny asked.Kit smiled, and maneuvered the taxi through another sharp turn. Two books ofpoetry skittered off the passenger seat to the floor of the automobile- The Walrus andthe Carpenter, and Other Poems by Lewis Carroll, and The Waste Land by T S. Eliot.The Baudelaires had recently received a message in code, and had used the poetry ofMr. Carroll and Mr. Eliot in order to decode the message and meet Kit Snicket onBriny Beach, and now it seemed that perhaps Kit was still talking in riddles. “A greatman once said that right, temporarily defeated, is stronger than evil triumphant. Doyou understand what that means?”Violet and Sunny turned to their brother, who was the literary expert in the family.Klaus Baudelaire had read so many books he was practically a walking library, andhad recently taken to writing important and interesting facts in a dark bluecommonplace book. “I think so,” the middle Baudelaire said. “He thinks that goodpeople are more powerful than evil people, even if evil people appear to be winning.Is he a member of V.F.D.?”“You might say that,” Kit said. “Certainly his message applies to our currentsituation. As you know, our organization split apart some time ago, with muchbitterness on both sides.”“The schism,” Violet said.“Yes,” Kit agreed with a sigh. “The schism. V.F.D. was once a united group ofvolunteers, trying to extinguish fires-both literally and figuratively. But now there aretwo groups of bitter enemies. Some of us continue to extinguish fires, but others haveturned to much less noble schemes.”“Olaf,” Sunny said. The language skills of the youngest Baudelaire were stilldeveloping, but everyone in the taxi knew what Sunny meant when she uttered thename of the notorious villain.“Count Olaf is one of our enemies,” Kit agreed, peering into her rearview mirrorand frowning, “but there are many, many more who are equally wicked, or perhapseven more so. If I’m not mistaken, you met two of them in the mountains-a man witha beard, but no hair, and a woman with hair, but no beard. There are plenty more,with all sorts of hairstyles and facial ornaments. A long time ago, of course, youcould spot members of V.F.D. by the tattoos on their ankles. But now there are somany wicked people it is impossible to keep track of all our enemies-and all thewhile they are keeping track of us. In fact, we may have some enemies behind us atthis very moment.”The Baudelaires turned to look out of the rear window, and saw another taxidriving behind them at quite a distance. Like Kit Snicket’s automobile, the windowsof this taxi were tinted, and so the children could not see anything through thedarkened glass.“Why do you think there are enemies in that taxi?” Violet asked.“A taxi will pick up anyone who signals for one,” Kit said. “There are countlesswicked people in the world, so it follows that sooner or later a taxi will pick up awicked person.”“Or a noble one,” Klaus pointed out. “Our parents took a taxi to the opera oneevening when their car wouldn’t start.”“I remember that evening well,” Kit replied with a faint smile. “It was aperformance of La Forza del Destino . Your mother was wearing a red shawl, withlong feathers along the edges. During intermission I followed them to the snack barand slipped them a box of poison darts before Esmé Squalor could catch me. It wasdifficult, but as one of my comrades likes to say, ‘To be daunted by no difficulty; tokeep heart when all have lost it; to go through intrigue spotless; to forgo evenambition when the end is gained-who can say this is not greatness?’ And speaking ofgreatness, please hold on. We can’t allow a potential enemy to follow us to ourimportant brunch.”When someone says that their head is spinning, they are usually using anexpression which means that they are very confused. Certainly the Baudelaires hadoccasion to use the expression in this way, after listening to a person hurriedlysummarizing the troubles of a splintered secret organization and quoting varioushistorical figures on the subject of wickedness while driving a taxi hurriedly towardsome mysterious, unexplained errands. But there are rare moments when theexpression “My head is spinning” refers to a time when one’s head is actuallyspinning, and when Kit uttered the word “brunch,” one of these moments arrived.The steering wheel clasped firmly in her gloves, Kit turned the taxi so sharply that itspun off the road. The children’s heads-along with the rest of their bodies-spun alongwith the automobile as it veered into the dense, green shrubbery on the side of theroad. When the taxi hit the shrubbery it kept spinning, and for a few seconds thesiblings saw nothing but a green blur as the car spun through the shrubbery, andheard nothing but the crackle of branches as they scraped along the sides of the car,and felt nothing but relief that they had remembered to wear their seat belts, and thenall of a sudden the Baudelaire heads stopped spinning, and they found themselvesshaky but safe in a sloping lawn on the other side of the shrubbery, where the taxi hadcome to a stop. Kit turned off the engine and sighed deeply, leaning her head againstthe steering wheel.“I probably shouldn’t do that,” she said, “in my condition.”“Condition?” Sunny asked.Kit lifted her head, and turned to fully face the Baudelaires for the first time sincethey had entered the car. She had a kind face, but there were lines of worry across herbrow, and it looked like she hadn’t slept properly for quite some time. Her hair waslong and messy, and she had two pencils stuck into it at odd angles. She was wearinga very elegant black coat, buttoned up all the way to her chin, but tucked into thelapel was a flower that had seen better days, a phrase which here means “had lostmost of its petals and wilted considerably.” If the Baudelaires had been asked toguess Kit’s condition, they would have said she looked like a woman who had beenthrough much hardship, and the Baudelaires wondered if their own hardships wereequally clear in their faces and clothes. “I’m distraught,” Kit said, using a wordwhich here means “sad and upset.” She opened the door of the taxi and sighed oncemore. “That’s my condition. I’m distraught, and I’m pregnant.” She unhooked herseat belt and stepped out of the car, and the Baudelaires saw she had spoken the truth.Beneath her coat, her belly had a slight but definite curve, as happens when womenare expecting children. When a woman is in such a condition, it is best to avoidstrain, a word which here means “physical activity that might endanger either thewoman or her future offspring.” Violet and Klaus could remember when their motherwas pregnant with Sunny, and spent her free time lounging on the largest sofa in theBaudelaire library, with their father fetching lemonade and pumpernickel toast, oradjusting the pillows beneath her so she was comfortable. Occasionally, he wouldplay one of their mother’s favorite pieces of music on the phonograph, and she wouldrise from the sofa and dance awkwardly, holding her growing belly and makingfunny faces at Violet and Klaus as they watched from the doorway, but for the mostpart the third Baudelaire pregnancy was spent in quiet relaxation. The Baudelairesfelt certain their mother had never spun a taxicab through shrubbery during herpregnancy, and were sorry that Kit Snicket’s condition did not allow her to avoid thestrain of such activities.“Gather all of your things, Baudelaires,” Kit said, “and if you don’t mind, I’mgoing to ask you to carry my things, too-just some books and papers in the front seat.One should never leave any belongings in a taxi, because you can never be sure ifyou’ll see them again. Please be quick about it. Our enemies are likely to turn theirtaxi around and find us.”Kit turned away from the Baudelaires and began to walk quickly down the slopinglawn, while the Baudelaires looked at one another in bewilderment.“When we arrived at Briny Beach ,” Violet said, “and saw the taxi waiting for us,just like the message said, I thought we were finally going to find answers to all ofour questions. But I have more questions now than I ever did.”“Me too,” Klaus said. “What does Kit Snicket want with us?”“What did she mean by concierge disguises?” Violet said.“What did she mean by observations as flaneurs?” Klaus asked.“What’s so important about brunch?” Violet asked.“How did she know we met those villains in the mountains?” Klaus asked.“Where is Quigley Quagmire?” Violet asked, referring to a young man of whomthe eldest Baudelaire was particularly fond, who had sent the coded message to thethree children.“Trust?” Sunny said quietly, and this was the most important question of all. By“trust,” the youngest Baudelaire meant something along the lines of, “Does KitSnicket seem like a reliable person, and should we follow her?” and this is often atricky question to ask about someone. Deciding whether or not to trust a person islike deciding whether or not to climb a tree, because you might get a wonderful viewfrom the highest branch, or you might simply get covered in sap, and for this reasonmany people choose to spend their time alone and indoors, where it is harder to get asplinter. The Baudelaires did not know very much about Kit Snicket, and so it wasdifficult to know what their future would be if they followed her down the slopinglawn toward the mysterious errands she had mentioned.“In the few minutes we’ve known her,” Violet said, “Kit Snicket has driven ataxicab into a mass of shrubbery. Normally I would be unwilling to trust such aperson, but…”“The poster,” Klaus said, as his sister’s voice trailed off. “I remember it, too.Mother said she purchased it during intermission, as a souvenir. She said it was themost interesting time she’d ever had at the opera, and she never wanted to forget it.”“The poster had a picture of a gun,” Violet remembered, “with a trail of smokeforming the words of the title.”Sunny nodded her head. “La Forza del Destino,” she said.The three children gazed out at the sloping lawn. Kit Snicket had already walkedquite some distance, without looking back to see if the children were following her.Without another word, the siblings reached into the passenger seat and gathered upKit’s things-the two books of poetry they had spotted earlier, and a cardboard folderbrimming with papers. Then they turned and began walking across the lawn. Frombehind the hedges came a faint sound, but the children could not tell if it was ataxicab turning around, or just the wind rustling in the shrubbery.“La forza del destino ” is an Italian phrase meaning “the force of destiny,” and“destiny” is a word that tends to cause arguments among the people who use it. Somepeople think destiny is something you cannot escape, such as death, or a cheesecakethat has curdled, both of which always turn up sooner or later. Other people thinkdestiny is a time in one’s life, such as the moment one becomes an adult, or theinstant it becomes necessary to construct a hiding place out of sofa cushions. Andstill other people think that destiny is an invisible force, like gravity, or a fear ofpaper cuts, that guides everyone throughout their lives, whether they are embarkingon a mysterious errand, doing a treacherous deed, or deciding that a book they havebegun reading is too dreadful to finish. In the opera La Forza del Destino , variouscharacters argue, fall in love, get married in secret, run away to monasteries, go towar, announce that they will get revenge, engage in duels, and drop a gun on thefloor, where it goes off accidentally and kills someone in an incident eerily similar toone that happens in chapter nine of this very book, and all the while they are trying tofigure out if any of these troubles are the result of destiny. They wonder and wonderat all the perils in their lives, and when the final curtain is brought down even theaudience cannot be sure what all these unfortunate events may mean. The Baudelaireorphans did not know what perils lay ahead of them, as they followed Kit Snicketdown the lawn, but they wondered- just as I wondered, on that fateful evening longago, as I hurried out of the opera house before a certain woman could spot me-if itwas the force of destiny that was guiding their story, or something even moremysterious, even more dangerous, and even more unfortunate.If you were to hold this book up to a mirror, you would see at once how confusingit is to read kcab detcelfer era eht nehw sdrow dna srettel .uoy ot In fact, the entireworld looks confusing in a mirror, almost as if rehto elohw a si ereht yltcaxe , ecafrusrevlis ynihs eht dnoyeb dlrow ,ni evil ew dlrow eht sa emas eht except backward.Life is perplexing enough without thinking about other worlds staring back at youfrom the mirror, which is why people who spend a great deal of time looking in themirror tend to have trouble thinking about anything except hcum os retfa revocsidyeht sterces gnilbis nwonknu ylsnoiverp a sa hcus , noicelfer yrev taht ta mehtgihctaw ydaerla saw ohw .tnemomThe Baudelaire orphans, of course, had not spent very much time looking inmirrors recently, as they’d been quite preoccupied, a word which here means “indesperate and mysterious circumstances brought about by Count Olaf.” But even ifthey had spent every waking moment staring at their own reflections, they would nothave been prepared for the perplexing sight waiting for them at the end of the slopinglawn. When Violet, Klaus, and Sunny at last caught up with Kit Snicket, it felt as ifthey had stepped into the world on the opposite side of the mirror without evenknowing it.Impossible as it seemed, the lawn deposited the children at the roof of a building,but a building that lay flat on the ground instead of rising up toward the sky. TheBaudelaires’ shoes were inches from the roof’s glittering shingles, where a large signread hotel denouement.Below the sign, farther from the orphans, was a row of windows with the number9 emblazoned on each of their shutters. The row was very long, stretching out to theleft and right of the Baudelaires, so far that they couldn’t see the end of it. Below thisrow of windows was another with the number 8 emblazoned on the shutters, and thenanother row with 7, and so on and so on, the numbers getting farther and farther awayfrom the Baudelaires, all the way down to 0. Protruding from one of the 0 windowswas a strange funnel, which was spewing a thick, white fog toward the siblings,covering a set of stairs leading to a large, curved archway one story above, markedENTRANCE. The building was constructed from strange, shimmering bricks, andhere and there on the building were large, strange flowers and patches of dark greenmoss, which all lay out on the ground in front of the children.After a moment, one of the shutters opened, and in an instant the Baudelairesrealized why the Hotel Denouement seemed so perplexing. They had not been staringat the building at all, but at its reflection in an enormous pond. The actual hotel stoodat the far end of the pond, and was reflected onto the pond’s surface. Normally, ofcourse, it is easy to tell a building from its reflection in a body of water, but whoeverhad designed the Hotel Denouement had added several features to confuse passersby.For one thing, the building did not stand up straight, but tilted toward the ground at aprecise angle, so that the pond only reflected the hotel, and none of the surroundinglandscape and sky. Also, all of the hotel’s signage-which is simply a fancy wordmeaning “signs”-was written backward, so the numbers on the windows could onlybe read correctly in the pond, and the words on the roof of the actual hotel readTNEMEUONED LETOH . Finally, some hardworking gardener had managed togrow lilies and moss on the bricks of the hotel-the same sort of lilies and moss thatgrow on the surface of ponds. The three siblings looked down at the pond, and thenup at the hotel, back and forth several times, before they were able to get theirbearings, a phrase which here means “stop staring at this perplexing sight and directtheir attention to Kit Snicket.”“Over here, Baudelaires!” the pregnant woman called, and the children saw thatKit had taken a seat on an enormous blanket laid out on the lawn. The blanket washeaped with enough food to feed an army, had an army decided that morning toinvade a pond. There were three loaves of bread, each baked into a different shape,lined up in front of little bowls of butter, jam, and what looked like melted chocolate.Alongside the bread was an enormous basket containing all sorts of pastries, frommuffins to donuts to custard éclairs, which happened to be a favorite of Klaus’s.There were two round tins containing quiche, which is a sort of pie made of eggs,cheese, and vegetables, and a large platter of smoked fish, and a wooden tray piledhigh with a pyramid of fruit. Three glass pitchers held three different kinds of juice,and there were silver pots containing coffee and tea, and laid out in a sort of fan wassilverware with which to eat it all, and three napkins that were monogrammed, aword which here means “had the initials V. B., K. B., and S. B. embroidered onthem.”“Sit down, sit down,” Kit said, taking a bite of a pastry covered in powdered sugar.“As I said, we don’t have much time, but that’s no excuse for not eating well. Helpyourselves to anything you like.”“Where did all this food come from?” Klaus asked.“One of our associates laid it out for us,” Kit said. “It is a policy of ourorganization that all picnics travel separately from the volunteers. If our enemiescapture the picnic, they won’t get their clutches on us, and if our enemies capture us,they won’t get the picnic. That’s something to remember during the next couple ofdays, as you participate in what one of our enemies calls the ‘perpetual struggle forroom and food.’ Please try the marmalade. It’s delicious.”The Baudelaires felt dizzy, as if their heads were still spinning from the ridethrough the shrubbery, and Violet reached into her pocket to find a ribbon. Theconversation was so bewildering that the eldest Baudelaire wanted to concentrate ashard as she did when she was dreaming up an invention. Tying her hair up helpedViolet focus her inventing mind, but before she could find a ribbon, Kit smiled kindlyat her, and produced a ribbon of her own. She gestured for the eldest Baudelaire to sitdown, and with a gentle look in her eyes, the distraught and pregnant woman tiedViolet’s hair up herself.“You look just like your father.” Kit sighed. “He wore the same frown wheneverhe was confused, although he almost never tied his hair up in a ribbon when hesolved a problem. Please, Baudelaires, eat your brunch, and I’ll try to catch you up onour current predicament. By the time you’re eating your second pastry I hope yourquestions will be answered.”The Baudelaires sat down, spread their monogrammed napkins on their laps, andbegan to eat, surprised to find that they were just as hungry for brunch as they werecurious for information. Violet took two slices of dark wheat bread and made herselfa sandwich of smoked fish, deciding to try the chocolate spread afterward if she stillhad room. Klaus served himself some quiche and took a custard eclair, and Sunnyrooted through the tray of fruit until she found a grapefruit, which she began to peelwith her unusually sharp teeth. Kit smiled at the children, dabbed at her own mouthwith a napkin embroidered with K. S., and began to speak.“The building at the other end of the pond is the Hotel Denouement,” she began.“Have you ever stayed there?”“No,” Violet said. “Our parents took us to the Hotel Preludio once for theweekend.”“That’s right,” Klaus said. “I’d almost forgotten.”“Carrots for breakfast,” Sunny said, remembering the weekend with a smile.“Well, the Hotel Preludio is a lovely place,” Kit said, “but the Hotel Denouementis more than that. For years, it’s been a place where our volunteers can gather toexchange information, discuss plans to defeat our enemies, and return books we’veborrowed from one another. Before the schism, there were countless places thatserved such purposes. Bookstores and banks, restaurants and stationery stores, cafesand laundromats, opium dens and geodesic domes- people of nobility and integritycould gather nearly everywhere.”“Those must have been wonderful times,” Violet said.“So I’m told,” Kit said. “I was four years old when everything changed. Ourorganization shattered, and it was as if the world shattered, too, and one by one thesafe places were destroyed. There was a large scientific laboratory, but the volunteerwho owned the place was murdered. There was an enormous cavern, but atreacherous team of realtors claimed it for themselves. And there was an immenseheadquarters high in the Mortmain Mountains , but-”“It was destroyed,” Klaus said quietly. “We were there shortly after the fire.”“Of course you were,” Kit said. “I’d forgotten. Well, the headquarters was thepenultimate safe place.”“Penulhoo?” Sunny asked.“‘Penultimate’ means ‘next-to-last,’” Kit explained. “When the mountainheadquarters was destroyed, only the Hotel Denouement was left. In every otherplace on Earth, nobility and integrity are vanishing quickly.” She sighed, and gazedout at the still, flat surface of the pond. “If we’re not careful, they’ll vanishcompletely. Can you imagine a world in which wickedness and deception wererunning rampant?”“Yes,” Violet said quietly, and her siblings nodded in agreement. They knew thatthe word “rampant” meant “without anyone to stop it,” and they could imagine such aworld very easily, because they had been living in one. Since their first encounterwith Count Olaf, the villain’s wickedness and deception had run rampant all over theBaudelaires’ lives, and it had been very difficult for the children to keep frombecoming villains themselves. In fact, when they considered all of their recentactions, they weren’t entirely sure they hadn’t performed a few acts of villainy, evenif they’d had very good reasons for doing so.“When we were in the mountains,” Klaus said, “we found a message one of thevolunteers had written. It said that V.F.D. would be gathering at the HotelDenouement on Thursday.”Kit nodded, and reached to pour herself some more coffee. “Was the messageaddressed to J. S.?” she asked.“Yes,” Violet said. “We assumed the initials stood for Jacques Snicket.”“Brother?” Sunny asked.Kit looked sadly down at her pastry. “Yes, Jacques was my brother. Because of theschism, I haven’t seen either of my brothers for years, and it was only recently that Ilearned of his murder.”“We met Jacques very briefly,” Violet said, referring to the time the Baudelaireshad spent in the care of an entire village. “You must have been shocked to receive thenews.”“Saddened,” Kit said, “but not shocked. So many good people have been slain byour enemies.” She reached across the blanket and patted the hands of all threeBaudelaires in turn. “I know I don’t have to tell you how terrible it feels to lose afamily member. I felt so terrible that I vowed I would never leave my bed.”“What happened?” Klaus said.Kit smiled. “I got hungry,” she said, “and when I opened the refrigerator, I foundanother message waiting for me.”“Verbal Fridge Dialogue,” Violet said, “the same code as the message we found inthe mountains.”“Yes,” Kit said. “You three had been spotted by another volunteer. We knew, ofcourse, that you children had nothing to do with my brother’s death, no matter whatthat ridiculous reporter wrote in The Daily Punctilio ”The Baudelaires looked at one another. They had almost forgotten about GeraldineJulienne, a journalist who had caused them much inadvertent trouble, a phrase whichhere means “published in the newspaper that the Baudelaire orphans had murderedJacques Snicket, whom she mistakenly identified as Count Olaf.” The siblings hadfound it necessary to disguise themselves several times so as not to be captured bythe authorities.“Who spotted us?” Klaus asked.“Quigley Quagmire, of course,” she said. “He found you in the MortmainMountains , and then managed to contact me when you were separated from him. Heand I managed to meet each other in an abandoned bathrobe emporium, where wedisguised ourselves as mannequins while we figured out what to do next. Finally, wemanaged to send a Volunteer Factual Dispatch to Captain Widdershins’s submarine.”“Queequeg” Sunny said, naming the underwater vehicle where she and hersiblings had recently spent a dreadful few days.“Our plan was to meet up with you at Briny Beach,” Kit said, “and proceed to theHotel Denouement for the V.F.D. gathering.”“But where is Quigley?” Violet asked.Kit sighed, and took a sip of her coffee. “He was very eager to see you,” she said,“but he received word from his siblings.”“Duncan and Isadora!” Klaus cried. “We haven’t seen them for quite some time.Are they safe?”“I hope so,” Kit answered. “The message they sent was incomplete, but it soundedas if they were being attacked in midair while flying over the sea. Quigley went tohelp them immediately in a helicopter we stole from a nearby botanist. If all goeswell, you’ll see all three Quagmire triplets on Thursday. That is, unless you cancelthe gathering.”“Cancel it?” Violet asked. “Why would we do a thing like that?”“The last safe place may not be safe after all,” Kit said sadly. “If that’s the case,you Baudelaires will need to send V.F.D. a signal that Thursday’s gathering iscanceled.”“Why not safe?” Sunny asked.Kit smiled at the youngest Baudelaire, opened the cardboard folder that theBaudelaires had retrieved from the taxicab, and began to page through the papersinside. “I’m sorry this is so disorganized,” she said. “I haven’t had time to update mycommonplace book. My brother used to say that if only one had a little more time todo some important reading, all the secrets in the world would become clear. I’vescarcely looked at these maps, poems, and blueprints that Charles sent me, or chosenwallpaper for the baby’s room. Wait one moment, Baudelaires. I’ll find it.”The children helped themselves to more brunch, trying to be patient as Kit lookedthrough her folder, pausing from time to time to smooth out the particularly crumpledpapers. At last she held up a tiny piece of paper, no bigger than a caterpillar, whichwas rolled into a tiny scroll. “Here it is,” she said. “A waiter slipped this to me lastnight by hiding it inside a cookie.”She handed it to Klaus, who unrolled the paper and squinted at it behind hisglasses. “‘J. S. has checked in,’” he read out loud, “‘and requested tea with sugar. Mybrother sends his regards. Sincerely, Frank.’”“Usually the messages inside the cookies are just superstitious nonsense,” Kit said,“but recently the restaurant has changed management. You can understand why thismessage made me so distraught, Baudelaires. Someone is posing as my brother, andhas checked into the hotel shortly before our entire organization is scheduled toarrive.”“Count Olaf,” Violet said.“It could be Olaf,” Kit agreed, “but there are plenty of villains who are all tooeager to be impostors. Those two villains in the mountains, for example.”“Or Hugo, Colette, or Kevin,” Klaus said, naming three people the children hadmet at Caligari Carnival, who had since joined Olaf’s troupe and had agreed to meethim at the hotel.“But this J. S. isn’t necessarily a wicked person,” Kit said. “Plenty of noble peoplewould check into the Hotel Denoument and order sugar in their tea. Not to sweeten it,of course- tea should be as bitter as wormwood, my brother used to say, and as sharpas a two-edged sword- but as a signal. Our comrades and our enemies are all after thesame thing-the Vessel For Disaccharides.”“Sugar bowl,” Sunny said, sharing a look of dismay with her siblings. TheBaudelaires knew that Kit was referring to a sugar bowl that was of great importanceto V.F.D. and to Count Olaf, who was desperate to get his hands on it. The childrenhad searched for this sugar bowl from the highest peak of the Mortmain Mountains tothe underwater depths of the Gorgonian Grotto, but had neither found this sugar bowlnor learned why it was so important.“Exactly,” Kit said. “The sugar bowl is on its way to the hotel even as we speak,and I’d hate to think what would happen if our enemies got ahold of it. I can’timagine anything worse, except perhaps if our enemies somehow got ahold of theMedusoid Mycelium.”The Baudelaires’ look of dismay augmented, a word which here means “increaseddramatically as they realized they had some bad news for Kit Snicket.” “I’m afraidthat Count Olaf has a small sample of the Medusoid Mycelium,” Violet said,referring to a deadly fungus the children had encountered while exploring the ocean.Its sinister spores had infected poor Sunny, who might not have survived had hersiblings not managed to dilute the poison in the nick of time. “We had a few sporeslocked tight in a diving helmet, but Olaf managed to steal it.”Kit gasped. “Then we most certainly have no time to lose. The three of you mustinfiltrate the Hotel Denouement and observe J. S. If J. S. is a noble person, then youmust make sure that the sugar bowl falls into his or her hands, but if J. S. is avillainous person, you must make sure it does not. And I’m sad to say that this won’tbe as easy as it sounds.”“It doesn’t sound easy at all,” Klaus said.“That’s the spirit,” Kit said, popping a grape into her mouth. “Of course, youwon’t be alone. Showing up early is one of the signs of a noble person, so there areother volunteers already at the hotel. You may even recognize some volunteers whohave been observing you during your travels. But you also may recognize some ofyour enemies, as they will be posing as noble people by showing up early as well.While you try to observe the impostor, various impostors will undoubtedly beobserving you.”“But how can we tell the volunteers from the enemies?” Violet asked.“The same way you always do,” Kit said. “When you first met Count Olaf, did youhave any doubt he was a treacherous person? When you first met the Quagmiretriplets, did you have any doubt that they were charming and resourceful? You’llhave to observe everyone you see, and make such judgements yourselves. YouBaudelaires will become flaneurs.”“Expound,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “I’m afraid Idon’t know what that word means.”“Flaneurs,” Kit explained, “are people who quietly observe their surroundings,intruding only when it is absolutely necessary. Children make excellent flaneurs, asso few people notice them. You’ll be able to pass unnoticed in the hotel.”“We can’t pass unnoticed,” Klaus said. “The Daily Punctilio has published ourphotographs in the paper. Someone is sure to recognize us and report our presence tothe authorities.”“My brother’s right,” Violet said. “Three children just can’t go wandering around ahotel observing things.”Kit smiled, and lifted one corner of the picnic blanket. Underneath were threeparcels wrapped in paper. “The man who sent me the message about the impostor,”she said, “is a member of V.F.D. He suggested that he hire the three of you asconcierges. Your uniforms are in these packets.”“Expound again,” Sunny said.Klaus had taken out his commonplace book and was taking notes on what Kit wassaying. The opportunity to define a word, however, was enough to interrupt hisresearch. “A concierge,” he said to his sister, “is someone who performs various tasksfor guests in the hotel.”“It’s the perfect disguise,” Kit said. “You’ll be doing everything from fetchingpackages to recommending restaurants. You’ll be allowed in every corner of thehotel, from the rooftop sunbathing salon to the laundry room in the basement, and noone will suspect you’re there to spy on them. Frank will help you as best he can, butbe very careful. The schism has turned many brothers into enemies. Under nocircumstances should you reveal your true selves to Frank’s treacherous identicalbrother Ernest.”“Identical?” Violet repeated. “If they’re identical, how can we tell them apart?”Kit took one last sip of her coffee. “Please try to pay attention,” she said. “You’llhave to observe everyone you see, and make such judgments yourselves. That’s theonly way to tell a villain from a volunteer. Now, is everything perfectly clear?”The Baudelaires looked at one another. They could not remember a time in theirlives when everything had been less clear than at this very moment, when everysentence Kit uttered seemed to be more mysterious than the last.Klaus looked at the notes he had made in his commonplace book, and tried tosummarize the errand Kit had outlined for them. “We’re going to disguise ourselvesas concierges,” he said carefully, “in order to become flaneurs and observe animpostor who is either a volunteer or an enemy.”“A man named Frank is going to help us,” Violet said, “but his brother Ernest willtry to stop us.”“There are several other volunteers in the hotel,” Klaus said, “but several otherenemies as well.”“Sugar bowl,” Sunny said.“Very good,” Kit said approvingly. “When you’re done with your brunch, you canchange into your uniforms behind that tree, and signal to Frank that you’re on yourway. Do you have something you can throw into the pond?”Violet reached into her pocket and drew out a stone she had picked up on BrinyBeach . “I imagine this will do,” she said.“That’s perfect,” Kit said. “Frank should be watching from one of the windows ofthe hotel, unless of course Ernest has intercepted my message and is watchinginstead. In any case, when you’re ready to meet him, you can throw the rock into thepond, and he’ll see the ripples and know you’re on your way.”“Aren’t you coming with us?” Klaus asked.“I’m afraid not,” Kit said. “I have other errands to perform. While Quigley tries toresolve the situation in the sky, I will try to resolve the situation in the sea, and you’llhave to resolve the situation here on land.”“Us alone?” Sunny asked. She meant something along the lines of, “Do you reallythink three children can accomplish all this by themselves?” and her siblings werequick to translate.“Look at yourselves,” Kit said, and gestured toward the pond. The Baudelairesstood up and stepped close to the water’s edge, and leaned over the pond so theirreflections appeared in front of the roof of the hotel. “When your parents died,” Kitsaid, “you were just a young girl, Violet. But you’ve matured. Those aren’t the eyesof a young girl. They’re the eyes of someone who has faced endless hardship. Andlook at you, Klaus. You have the look of an experienced researcher-not just the youngreader who lost his parents in a fire. And Sunny, you’re standing on your own twofeet, and so many of your teeth are growing in that they don’t appear to be of suchunusual size, as they were when you were a baby. You’re not children anymore,Baudelaires. You’re volunteers, ready to face the challenges of a desperate andperplexing world. You must go to the Hotel Denouement, and Quigley must go to theself-sustaining hot air mobile home, and I must go to a coral formation of dubiousquality where an inflatable raft should be waiting. But if Quigley manages toconstruct a net big enough to capture all those eagles, and I manage to contactCaptain Widdershins and have him meet me at a certain clump of seaweed, we’ll behere on Thursday. Hector should manage to land his self-sustaining hot air mobilehome on the roof, even with all of us aboard.”“Hector?” Violet said, remembering the man who had been so kind to them in theVillage of Fowl Devotees, and his enormous invention that had carried him awayfrom the Baudelaires. “He’s safe?”“I hope so,” Kit said quietly, and stood up. She turned her face from theBaudelaires, and her voice seemed to tremble as she talked. “Don’t worry about thebrunch things, Baudelaires. One of my comrades has volunteered to clean up afterour picnic. He’s a wonderful gentleman. You’ll meet him on Thursday, if all goeswell. If all goes well-”But she could not finish her sentence. Instead, she gave a little whimper, and hershoulders began to shake as the Baudelaires looked at one another. When someone iscrying, of course, the noble thing to do is to comfort them. But if someone is trying tohide their tears, it may also be noble to pretend you do not notice them, so they willnot be embarrassed. For a moment, the children could not choose between the nobleactivity of comforting a crying person and the noble activity of not embarrassing acrying person, but as Kit Snicket began to cry harder and harder they decided tocomfort her. Violet clasped one of her hands. Klaus put an arm around her shoulder.Sunny hugged Kit above the knees, which was as high as she could reach.“Why are you crying?” Violet asked. “Why are you so distraught?”“Because all will not go well,” Kit said finally. “You may as well know that now,Baudelaires. These are dark days, as dark as a crow flying through a pitch blacknight. Our errands may be noble, but we will not succeed. I suspect that beforeThursday, I’ll see your signal and know that all our hopes have gone up in smoke.”“But how will we signal?” Klaus asked.“Which code should we use?”“Any code you devise,” Kit said. “We’ll be watching the skies.”With that, she shook herself out of the children’s comforting arms, and hurriedaway from the pond without another word to the siblings. Violet, Klaus, and Sunnywatched her figure get smaller and smaller as she ran up the lawn, perhaps on herway back to the taxicab, or to join up with another mysterious volunteer, until at lastshe disappeared over the slope. For a moment none of the children said a word, andthen Sunny reached down and picked up the parcels.“Change?” she asked.“I guess so,” Violet said with a sigh. “It seems a shame to waste all this food, but Ican’t eat any more brunch.”“Perhaps the volunteer who is cleaning it up will bring it to someone else,” Klaussaid.“Perhaps,” Violet agreed. “There’s so much about V.F.D. that remains a mystery.”“Perhaps we’ll learn more when we’re flaneurs,” Klaus said. “If we observeeverything around us, perhaps some of these mysteries will become clear. I hope so.”“I hope so, too,” Violet said.“Also hope so,” Sunny said, and the Baudelaires said no more. Leaving theirbrunch behind, they ducked behind the tree Kit had suggested, and held up the picnicblanket as a sort of curtain, so each child could change into a concierge disguise inrelative privacy. Violet buckled a shiny silver belt with the words HOTELDENOUEMENT printed in large, black letters all the way around it, and hoped thatshe would be able to tell the difference between Frank and his treacherous brotherErnest. Klaus adjusted his stiff, round hat, which had a firm elastic band that tuckedunder the chin, and hoped he would know which of the guests were volunteers andwhich were villains. And Sunny slipped her fingers into the clean white gloves,surprised that Frank had managed to find them in such a small size, and hoped thatshe would be able to investigate the impostor posing as Jacques Snicket.When the three children were all wearing their uniforms, they walked back to theedge of the pond and put on the last part of their disguises: three enormous pairs ofsunglasses, reminding them of a disguise Count Olaf had worn when pretending to bea detective. The sunglasses were so large that they covered not only their eyes but agreat portion of their faces-Klaus could even wear his regular glasses underneaththem without anyone noticing. As they gazed through the sunglasses at their ownreflections, they wondered if the disguises were enough to keep them out of the handsof the authorities long enough to solve all the mysteries that surrounded them, andthey wondered if it was true what Kit Snicket had said, that they weren’t childrenanymore, but volunteers ready to face the challenges of a desperate and perplexingworld. The Baudelaires hoped so. But when Violet took the stone in her gloved hand,and threw it out into the middle of the pond, they wondered if their hopes would sinkin the same way. They watched as the surface of the pond rippled, disrupting thereflection of the hotel. The children watched the shingles of the roof turn into a blur,and they watched the word “Denouement” disappear as if it were written on a pieceof paper someone was crumpling in their hand. They watched each row of windowsmelt together, and they watched all the flowers and moss dissolve into nothing as thestone sank deeper and deeper into the pond, and the circular ripples spread furtherand further across the reflection. The Baudelaire orphans watched this reflectedworld disappear, and wondered if their hopes would also disappear, into the strange,rippling world of the Hotel Denouement and eht lla .edisni dppb yal that srerces dnaseiretsym.C H A P T E RThreeThere are places where the world is quiet, but the enormous lobby of the HotelDenouement was not one of them. On the day the Baudelaires walked up the stairsthrough the white fog from the funnel and entered the large, curved archway markedECNARTC -or when reflected in the enormous pond, entrance-the lobby wasbustling with activity. As Kit Snicket had predicted, the Baudelaires were able to passunnoticed in the hotel, because everyone was far too busy to notice anything. Guestswere lined up in front of a huge reception desk- which for some reason had thenumber 101 emblazoned on the wall above it-so they could check into the hotel andgo to their rooms to freshen up. Bellboys and bellgirls were loading piles of luggageonto carts and rolling them toward the elevators-which for some reason had thenumber 118 emblazoned on their doors-so they could drop off the suitcases in theguests’ rooms and collect their tips. Waiters and waitresses were bringing food anddrink to people who were sitting on the chairs and benches of the lobby, waiting forrefreshment. Taxi drivers were ushering guests into the lobby to join the line, anddogs were dragging their owners out of the lobby to take walks. Confused touristswere standing around looking quizzically at maps, and rambunctious children wereplaying hide-and-seek among the potted plants. A man in a tuxedo was sitting at agrand piano emblazoned with the number 152, playing tinkly tunes to amuse anyonewho cared to listen, and members of the cleaning staff were discreetly polishing thegreen wooden floors etched with the number 123, for anyone who cared to see theirfeet reflected with every step. There was an enormous fountain in one corner of theroom, releasing a cascade of water that ran over the number 131 in a shiny, smoothwall, and there was an enormous woman in the opposite corner, standing under thenumber 176 and shouting a man’s name over and over in an increasingly annoyedtone of voice. The Baudelaires tried to be flaneurs as they walked across the chaos ofthe lobby, but there was so much to observe, and all of it was moving so quickly, thatthey wondered how they could even get started on their noble errand.“I had no idea this place would be so busy,” Violet said, blinking at the lobby frombehind her sunglasses.“How in the world will we be able to observe the impostor,” Klaus wondered,“among all these possible suspects?”A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate Peril“Frank first,” Sunny said.“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “The first step in our errand should be locating ournew employer. If he saw our signal from that open window, he should be expectingus.”“Unless his villainous brother Ernest is expecting us instead,” Klaus said.“Or both,” Sunny said.“Why do you suppose there are so many numbers-” Violet started to ask, butbefore she could finish her question a man came bounding up to them. He was verytall and skinny, and his arms and legs stuck out at odd angles, as if he were made ofdrinking straws instead of flesh and bone. He was dressed in a uniform similar to thatof the Baudelaires’, but with the word MANAGER printed in fancy script over one ofthe pockets of his coat.“You must be the new concierges,” he said. “Welcome to the Hotel Denouement.I’m one of the managers.”“Frank,” Violet asked, “or Ernest?”“Exactly,” the man said, and winked at them. “I’m so happy the three of you arehere, even if one of you is unusually short, because we’re unusually short-handed.I’m so busy you’ll have to figure out the system for yourself.”“System?” Klaus asked.“This place is as complicated as it is enormous,” said Frank, or perhaps Ernest,“and vice versa. I’d hate to think what would happen if you didn’t understand it.”The Baudelaires looked carefully at their new manager, but his face was utterlyunfathomable, a word which here means “blank, so the Baudelaires could not tell ifhe was giving them a friendly warning or a sinister threat.” “We’ll try our best,”Violet said quietly.“Good,” said the manager, leading the children across the enormous lobby. “You’llbe at our guests’ beck and call,” he continued, using a phrase which meant that theguests would boss the Baudelaires around. “If anyone and everyone staying here asksfor assistance, you’ll immediately volunteer to help them.”“Excuse me, sir,” interrupted one of the bellboys. He was holding a suitcase ineach hand and wearing a confused expression on his face. “This luggage arrived in ataxi, but the driver said the guest wouldn’t arrive until Thursday. What should I do?”“Thursday?” said Frank or Ernest with a frown. “Excuse me, concierges. I don’tsuppose I have to tell you how important this is. I’ll be right back.”The manager followed the bellboy into the crowd, leaving the Baudelairesstanding alone next to a large, wooden bench marked with the number 128. Klaus ranhis hand along the bench, which was etched with rings, from people setting downglasses without using coasters. “Do you think we were talking to Frank,” Klaus said,“or Ernest?”“I don’t know,” Violet said. “He used the word ‘volunteer.’ Maybe that was somesort of a code.”“Thursinterest,” Sunny said, which meant “He knew that Thursday wasimportant.”“That’s true,” Klaus said, “but is it important to him because he’s a volunteer or avillain?”Before either Baudelaire sister could hazard a guess, a phrase which here means“attempt to answer Klaus’s question,” the tall, skinny manager reappeared at theirsides. “You must be the new concierges,” he said, and the children realized that thiswas the other brother. “Welcome to the Hotel Denouement.”“You must be Ernest,” Violet tried.“Or Frank,” Sunny said.“Yes,” the manager said, although it was not at all clear with whom he wasagreeing. “I’m very grateful you three are here. The hotel is quite busy at themoment, and we’re expecting more guests to arrive on Thursday. Now, you’ll bestationed at the concierge desk, number 175, right over here. Follow me.”The children followed him to the far wall of the lobby, where a large wooden desksat under the number 175, which was painted over an enormous window. On the deskwas a small lamp shaped like a frog, and out the window, the children could see thegray, flat horizon of the sea. “We’ve got a pond on one side of us,” said Ernest, unlessof course it was Frank, “and the sea on the other side. It doesn’t sound very safe, andyet some people think this is a very safe place indeed.” Frank, unless it was Ernest,looked around hurriedly and lowered his voice. “What do you think?”Once again, the manager’s face was unfathomable, and the children could not tellif his reference to a safe place made him a volunteer or a villain. “Hmm,” Sunny said,which is often a safe answer, even though it is not really an answer at all.“Hmm,” Frank or Ernest said in response. “Now then, let me explain how thishotel is organized.”“Excuse me, sir,” said a bellgirl, whose face could not be seen behind the pile ofnewspapers she was carrying. “The latest edition of The Daily Punctilio has arrived.”“Let me see,” said either Ernest or Frank, plucking a copy from the top of the pile.“I heard that Geraldine Julienne has written an update on the Baudelaire case.”The Baudelaire orphans froze, scarcely daring to look at one another, let alone thevolunteer or villain who was standing beside them reading the headline out loud,“‘baudelaires rumored to return to the city,’” he said. “‘According to informationrecently discovered by this reporter when opening a cookie, Veronica, Klyde, andSusie Baudelaire, the notorious murderers of renowned actor Count Omar, arereturning to the city, perhaps to commit more vicious murders or to continue theirrecent hobby of arson. Citizens are advised to watch for these three bloodthirstychildren, and to report them to the authorities if they are spotted. If they are notspotted, citizens are advised to do nothing.’” The manager turned to the Baudelaires,his face as unfathomable as ever. “What do you think of that, concierges?”“That’s an interesting question,” Klaus replied, which is another very safe answer.“I’m glad you find it interesting,” Ernest or Frank replied, which was an equallysafe answer to Klaus’s safe answer. Then he turned to the bellgirl. “I’ll show you thenewsstand in Room 168,” he said, and disappeared with the newspapers into thecrowd, leaving the Baudelaires alone, standing at the desk and staring out to sea.“I think that was Ernest,” Violet said. “His comment about the hotel’s safetysounded very sinister.”“But he didn’t seem alarmed by the story in The Daily Punctilio ,” Klaus said. “IfErnest is an enemy of V.F.D., he’d be on the watch for us. So that man was probablyFrank.”“Maybe he just didn’t recognize us,” Violet said. “After all, few people recognizeCount Olaf when he’s in disguise, and his disguises aren’t much better than ours.Maybe we look more like concierges than Baudelaires.”“Or maybe we don’t look like Baudelaires at all,” Klaus said. “As Kit said, we’renot children anymore.”“Nidiculous,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “I think I’m still a child.”“That’s true,” Klaus admitted, smiling down at his sister, “but the older we get, theless likely it is that we’ll be recognized.”“That should make it easier to do our errands,” Violet said.“What do you mean by that?” asked a familiar voice, and the Baudelaires saw thateither Frank or Ernest had returned.“What my associate meant,” Klaus said, thinking quickly, “is that it would beeasier for us to start our work as concierges if you explained how the hotel isorganized.”“I just said I would do that,” said Frank in an annoyed voice, or Ernest in anirritated one. “Once you understand how the Hotel Denouement works, you’ll be ableto perform your errands as easily as you would find a book in a library. And if youcan find a book in a library, then you already know how this hotel works.”“Expound,” Sunny said.“The Hotel Denouement is organized according to the Dewey Decimal System,”Frank or Ernest explained. “That’s the same way books are organized in manylibraries. For instance, if you wanted to find a book on German poetry, you wouldbegin in the section of the library marked 800, which contains books on literature andrhetoric. Similarly, the eighth story of this hotel is reserved for our rhetorical guests.Within the 800 section of a library, you’d find books on German poetry labeled 831,and if you were to take the elevator up to the eighth story and walk into Room 831,you’d find a gathering of German poets. Understand?”“I think so,” said Klaus. All three Baudelaires had spent enough time in libraries tobe familiar with the Dewey Decimal System, but even Klaus’s vast experience inresearch did not mean he had committed the entire system to memory. It is notnecessary, of course, to memorize the Dewey Decimal System in order to use alibrary, as most libraries have catalogs, in which all of the books are listed on cards oron a computer screen to make them easier to find. “Where can we find the catalog forthe Hotel Denouement’s services?”“Catalog?” repeated either Frank or Ernest. “You shouldn’t need a catalog. Theentire 100 section of a library is dedicated to philosophy and psychology, and so isthe first story of our hotel, from the reception desk, which is labeled 101 for thetheory of philosophy, to the concierge desk, which is labeled 175 for the ethics ofrecreation and leisure, to the couches over there, which are labeled 135, for dreamsand mysteries, in case our guests want to take a nap or conceal something underneaththe sofa cushions. The second story is the 200s, for religion, and we have a church, acathedral, a chapel, a synagogue, a mosque, a temple, a shrine, a shuffleboard court,and Room 296, which is currently occupied by a somewhat cranky rabbi.The third story is the social sciences, where we have placed our ballrooms andmeeting rooms; the fourth story is dedicated to language, so most of our foreignersstay there. The 500s are dedicated to mathematics and science, and the sixth story isdedicated to technology, from the sauna in Room 613, which stands for thepromotion of health, to Room 697, which is where we keep the controls for heating,ventilation, and air conditioning. Now, if the seventh story stands for the arts, whatdo you think we would find in Room 792, which stands for stage presentations?”Violet wanted to tie her hair up in a ribbon to help her think, but she was afraid ofbeing recognized. “A theater?” she said.“You’ve obviously visited a library before,” the manager said, although thechildren could not tell if he was complimenting them or getting suspicious. “I’mafraid that’s not true of all of our guests, so when they are in need of any of ourservices, they ring for a concierge instead of wandering around the hotel bythemselves. In the next day or so, you’ll probably walk through every section of thehotel, from the astronomy observatory in Room 999 to the employees’ quarters in thebasement, Room 000.”“Is that where we sleep?” Klaus asked.“Well, you’re on duty twenty-four hours a day,” Ernest said, or perhaps it wasFrank. “But the hotel gets very quiet at night, when the guests go to sleep, or stay upall night reading. You can nap behind the desk, and when someone rings for you itwill serve as an alarm clock.”Frank stopped talking, or perhaps it was Ernest, and quickly looked around theroom before leaning in close to the Baudelaires. The three siblings nervously lookedback at Ernest through their sunglasses, or maybe it was Frank. “Your positions asconcierges,” he said in his unfathomable tone, “are excellent opportunities for you toquietly observe your surroundings. People tend to treat the hotel staff as if they areinvisible, so you will have the chance to see and hear quite a lot of interesting things.However, you should remember that you will also have many opportunities to beobserved. Do I make myself clear?”This time it was Violet who needed to give a safe answer. “Hmm,” she said.“That’s an interesting question.”Either Frank or Ernest narrowed his eyes at the oldest Baudelaire, and seemedabout to say something when the Baudelaires suddenly heard some loud, piercingringing sounds. “Aha!” the manager cried. “Your work has begun!”The siblings followed Ernest or Frank around to the other side of the desk, andFrank or Ernest pointed to a vast network of tiny bells, each no larger than a thimble,which lined the back of a desk where knobs for drawers might otherwise be. Eachbell had a number on it, from 000 to 999, with one extra bell that had no number atall. This extra bell was ringing, along with the bell numbered 371 and the bellnumbered 674.“Ring!” cried either Ernest or Frank. “Ring! I shouldn’t have to tell you the bell’syour signal. We can’t keep our guests waiting for even an instant. You can tell whichguest is ringing by the number on the bell. If the number written on the bell was 469,for example, you would know that one of our Portuguese guests required assistance.Are you paying attention? The bell marked 674 indicates our associates in the lumberindustry, as the number 674 means lumber processing or wood products in the DeweyDecimal System. We can’t make enemies out of important guests! The number 371indicates educational guests. Please be nice to them, too, although they’re much lessimportant. Respond to all of our guests whenever you hear that ring!”“But what does that unmarked bell refer to?” Klaus asked. “The Dewey DecimalSystem doesn’t go higher than 999.”The manager frowned, as if the middle Baudelaire had given him the wronganswer. “That’s the rooftop sunbathing salon,” he said. “People who sunbathe aren’tusually interested in library science, so they’re not picky about the salon’s location.Now, get moving!”“But where shall we go first?” Violet said. “Guests have requested assistance inthree places at once.”“You’ll have to split up, of course,” Frank or Ernest replied, as unfathomably asever. “Each concierge will choose a guest and hurry to their location. Take theelevators-they’re at 118, for force and energy.”“Excuse me, sir,” said another bellboy, tapping Ernest or Frank on the shoulder.“There’s a banker on the phone who wants to speak to one of the managers rightaway.”“I’d better get to work,” the manager said, “and so should you, concierges. Offwith you!”“Off with you” is a phrase used by people who lack the courtesy to say somethingmore polite, such as “If there’s nothing else you require, I must be going,” or “I’msorry, but I’m going to have to ask you to leave, please,” or even “Excuse me, but Ibelieve you have mistaken my home for your own, and my valuable belongings foryours, and I must ask you to return the items in question to me, and leave my home,after untying me from this chair, as I am unable to do it myself, if it’s not too muchtrouble.” The children were not pleased to be dismissed so rudely, nor were theypleased to learn that their employment as concierges would involve such acomplicated organizational method in an immense and confusing hotel. They werenot pleased that they had not been able to discern which manager was Frank andwhich was Ernest, and they were not pleased to learn that The Daily Punctilio wasalerting the city’s citizens to the Baudelaires’ arrival, and that someone mightrecognize them at any moment and have them arrested for crimes they had notcommitted. But most of all, the Baudelaires were not pleased by the notion ofsplitting up and doing separate errands in this perplexing hotel. They had hoped toperform their duties as concierges and flaneurs together, and with each step towardthe elevators they grew more and more unhappy at the idea of leaving one anotherbehind.“I’ll go to the rooftop sunbathing salon,” Violet said, trying to be brave. “Klaus,why don’t you take Room 674, and Sunny, you can take Room 371. We’ll all meet upat the concierge desk when we’re done.”“We’ll be able to observe more this way,” Klaus said hopefully. “With the three ofus on three separate stories, we can find the impostor much more quickly.”“Unsafe,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “I’d rather notfind the impostor if I’m all by myself.”“You’ll be safe, Sunny,” Klaus said. “This hotel is just like a large library.”“Yes,” Violet said. “And what’s the worst thing that can happen in a library?”The two younger Baudelaires did not answer her, and the three concierges stood insilence for a few moments, gazing at a small sign posted near the elevators’ slidingdoors. When one pair of doors finally opened, the children stepped inside and pressedthe appropriate buttons for their guests’ locations, and as the small elevator began torise, the children remembered the elevator shaft at 667 Dark Avenue , which it hadbeen necessary to climb up and down several times. The Baudelaires had learned theworst thing that could happen in an elevator shaft, which was being thrown down oneby a villainous girlfriend. The Baudelaires had learned the worst thing that couldhappen at a lumbermill, which was being forced to cause a violent accident throughthe sinister power of hypnotism. And the Baudelaires had learned the worst thing thatcould happen at a school, which was meeting some dear friends, only to have themdragged away in a long, black automobile. The orphans learned what the worst thingwas at a herpetologist’s house, and what the worst thing was in a small town, and at ahospital, and at a carnival, and at the peak of a mountaintop, and in a submarine, anda cave, and within the currents of a rushing stream, and inside the trunk of a car andin a pit full of lions and in a secret passageway and many, many other sinister placesthey preferred not to think about at all, and throughout all these perils they hadencountered, and the countless other perils besides, they had always found a libraryof some sort or another, where the children managed to discover the crucialinformation necessary to save their skins, a phrase which here means “keep themalive for the next terrible chapter in their lives.” But now the Baudelaires’ new homewas a library-a strange one, of course, but a library nonetheless-and as the elevatortook them silently through the library toward their separate destinations, they did notlike to wonder what the worst thing was that could happen at a library, particularlyafter reading the first four words on the small, posted sign. IN case of fire, the signread, and as the Baudelaire orphans went their separate ways, they did not like tothink of that at all.N O T A C H A P T E RAs I’m sure you’ve noticed, most of the history of the Baudelaire orphans isorganized sequentially, a word which here means “so that the events in the lives ofViolet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire are related in the order in which they occurred.”In the case of the next three chapters, however, the story is organized simultaneously,which means that you do not have to read the chapters in the order in which theyappear. In chapter four, you may find the story of Violet Baudelaire’s journey up tothe rooftop sunbathing salon, and the unpleasant conversation she had occasion tooverhear. In chapter five, you may read about Klaus’s experience with certainmembers of the lumber industry, and a sinister plot that was devised right in front ofhis nose. And in chapter six, you may see the result of my research into Sunny’sdreadful visit to Room 371 and to a mysterious restaurant located on the ninth story.But because all of them occur at the very same time, you need not read the chaptersin the sequence four-five-six, but can read them in any order you choose. Or, moresensibly, you could simply skip all three chapters, along with the seven chapters thatfollow them, and find some other sequential or simultaneous thing with which tooccupy your time.C H A P T E RFourWhen the elevator finally reached the roof, and the doors slid open to allow her toexit, Violet Baudelaire had two reasons to be grateful that her concierge disguiseincluded sunglasses. For one thing, the rooftop sunbathing salon was very, verybright. The morning fog, so thick when the Baudelaires arrived on Briny Beach, haddisappeared, and the rays of the afternoon sun beat down on the entire city, reflectingoff every shiny object, from the glistening waters of the sea, which splashed againstthe opposite side of the hotel, to the surface of the pond, which had settled sinceViolet had thrown the stone. All along the edge of the roof were large, rectangularmirrors, tilted like the hotel itself, catching the blinding light of the afternoon sun andbouncing it onto the skin of the sunbathing guests. Ten sunbathers, their bare skincoated in thick, sticky lotion, lay without moving on shiny mats arranged around aheated swimming pool, which was so warm that clouds of steam were floating upfrom the surface. In a corner was an attendant, his eyes covered in green sunglassesand his body covered in a long, baggy robe. He was holding two enormous spatulas,such as might be used to flip pancakes, and from time to time he would reach outwith a spatula and flip over one of the sunbathers, so that their bellies and backswould be the same shade of brown. The spatulas, like the mirrors and the mats andthe pool, reflected the light of the sun, and Violet was glad her eyes were shielded.But there was another reason the eldest Baudelaire was grateful for the sunglasses,and it had to do with the person who was waiting impatiently by the doors to theelevator. This person was also wearing sunglasses, although these were much moreunusual. Instead of lenses, there were two large cones sticking out from the eyes,getting wider and wider until they stopped, as wide as dinner plates, several feet infront of the person’s face. Such a pair of glasses might have concealed the identity ofthe person who was wearing them, but they were so ridiculous that Violet knew therecould be only one person so obsessed with being fashionable that she would wearsuch ridiculous eyewear, and Violet was grateful that her own identity was concealed.“Here you are at last,” said Esmé Squalor. “I thought I’d never see you here.”“Pardon me?” Violet asked nervously.“Are you deaf, concierge?” Esmé demanded. Her scornful frown was lined withsilver lipstick, as if she had been drinking molten metal, and she pointed an accusingfinger with a long, silver nail. The nails had been filed into individual shapes, so thateach hand spelled “E-S-M-E,” with the thumbnail carved into the familiar symbol ofan eye. The letters were painted to match Esmé‘s sandals, which had long, frillystraps that ran around and around the notorious girlfriend’s bare legs like centipedes.The rest of Esmé‘s outfit, I regret to say, consisted of three large leaves of lettuce,attached to her body with tape. If you have ever seen the bathing garment known asthe bikini, then you can guess where these pieces of lettuce were attached, and if youcannot guess then I advise you to ask someone of your acquaintance who is not assqueamish as I am about discussing the bodies of villainous women. “Glamorouspeople like myself don’t have time to be nice to the deaf,” she snarled. “I rang theconcierge bell more than two minutes ago, and I’ve been waiting the entire time!”“I can see the headline now,” crowed another voice, ‘“unbelievably glamorous andbeautiful woman complains about hotel service!’ Wait until the readers of The DailyPunctilio see that!”Violet was so relieved not to be recognized that she hadn’t noticed who wasstanding next to Count Olaf’s treacherous girlfriend. Geraldine Julienne was theirresponsible journalist who had printed so many lies about the Baudelaires, and shewasn’t happy to see that the reporter had become one of Esmé‘s sycophants, a wordwhich here means “people who enjoy flattering people who enjoy being flattered.”“I’m sorry, ma’am,” Violet said, in as professional a tone as she could muster.“The concierges are particularly busy today. What is it you require?”“It’s not what I require,” Esmé said, “it’s what the adorable little girl in the poolrequires.”“I’m not an adorable little girl!” Yet another familiar voice came from thedirection of the heated pool, and Violet turned to see Carmelita Spats, a spoiled andunpleasant child the Baudelaires had first encountered at boarding school, who hadgone on to join Count Olaf and Esmé Squalor in performing treacherous deeds. “I’ma ballplaying cowboy superhero soldier pirate!” she cried, emerging from a cloud ofsteam. She was wearing an outfit as ridiculous as Esmé‘s, though thankfully it wasn’tas revealing. She had on a bright blue jacket, covered with shiny medals such as aregiven to people for military service, which was unbuttoned to reveal a white shirt thatproclaimed the name of a sports team in curly blue letters. Stapled to the back of herjacket was a long, blue cape, and on her feet were a pair of bright blue boots withspurs, which are tiny wheels of spikes used to urge animals to move more quicklythan they might otherwise prefer. She had a blue patch covering one of her eyes, andon her head was a blue triangular hat with a skull and crossbones printed on it-thesymbol that pirates use while prowling the high seas. Carmelita Spats, of course, wasnot on the high seas, but had managed to drag a large, wooden boat to the rooftopsunbathing salon so she could prowl a high swimming pool. On the bow of the boatwas an ornately carved figurehead, a word which here means “wooden statue of anoctopus attacking a man in a diving suit,” and there was a tall mast, stretching uptoward the sky, which held a billowing sail that had the insignia of an eye matchingthe one on Count Olaf’s ankle. The eldest Baudelaire stared for a moment at thishideous figurehead, but then turned her attention to Carmelita. The last time Violethad seen the unpleasant captain of this boat, she was dressed all in pink, and wasannouncing herself as a tap-dancing ballerina fairy princess veterinarian, but theeldest Baudelaire could hardly say whether being a ballplaying cowboy superherosoldier pirate was better or worse.“Of course you are, darling,” purred Esmé, and turned to Geraldine Julienne with asmile one mother might give another at a playground. “Carmelita has been a tomboylately,” she said, using an insulting term inflicted on girls whose behavior somepeople find unusual.“I’m sure your daughter will grow out of it,” Geraldine replied, who as usual wasspeaking into a microphone.“Carmelita Spats is not my daughter,” Esmé said haughtily. “I’d no sooner havechildren of my own than I would wear modest clothing.”“I thought you adopted three orphans,” Geraldine said.“When it was in,” Esmé hurriedly added, using her usual word for “fashionable.”“But orphans are out now.”“Then what’s in?” asked Geraldine breathlessly.“Planning cocktail parties in hotels, of course!” crowed Esmé. “Why else would Ilet a ridiculous woman like yourself interview me?”“How wonderful!” cried Geraldine, who appeared not to realize she had just beeninsulted. “I can see the headline now: ‘ESMÉ SQUALOR, THE MOSTGLAMOROUS PERSON EVER!’ Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio seethat! When they read about your career as an actress, financial advisor, girlfriend, andcocktail party hostess, they’ll get so excited that some of them will probably haveheart attacks!”“I hope so,” Esmé said.“I’m sure my readers will want to know all about your stylish outfit,” Geraldinesaid, holding her microphone under Esmé‘s chin. “Will you tell us something aboutthose unusual glasses you’re wearing?”“They’re sunoculars,” Esmé said, patting her strange eyewear. “They’re acombination of sunglasses and binoculars. They’re very in, and this way I can watchthe skies without getting the sun in my eyes-or the moon, if something should happento arrive at night.”“Why would you want to watch the skies?” Geraldine asked curiously.Esmé frowned, and Violet could tell that the stylish woman had let something slip,a phrase which here means “said something she wished she hadn’t.” “Becausebirdwatching is very in,” she said unconvincingly, a word which here means “clearlytelling a lie.”“Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio hear that!” gasped Geraldine. “Willall the guests at your cocktail party be wearing sunoculars?”“No matter what the guests are wearing,” Esmé said with a smirk, “they won’t beable to see the surprises we have in store for them.”“What surprises?” Geraldine asked eagerly.“If I told you what they were,” Esmé said, “they wouldn’t be surprises.”“Couldn’t you give me a hint?” Geraldine asked.“No,” Esmé said.“Not even a little one?” Geraldine asked.“No,” Esmé said.“Pretty please?” Geraldine whined. “Pretty please with sugar on top?”Esmé‘s silver-coated lips curled thoughtfully. “If I give you a hint,” she said,“you’ll have to tell me something, too. You’re a reporter, so you know all sorts ofinteresting information. Before I reveal my special hors d’oeuvres for Thursday’scocktail party, I want you to tell me something about a certain guest at this hotel.He’s been lurking around the basement, plotting to spoil our party. His initials are J.S.”“Lurking around the basement?” Geraldine repeated. “But J. S. is-”“Esmé!” Carmelita screamed from the swimming pool, interrupting at just theworst moment. “That concierge is just standing there, when she’s supposed to be atmy beck and call! She’s nothing but a cakesniffer!”Esmé turned to Violet, who was used to being called a cakesniffer after all thistime. “What are you waiting for?” she snarled. “Go get whatever that darling littlegirl wants!”Esmé twirled around and marched away, and Violet was glad to see that thevillainous girlfriend’s outfit had two more lettuce leaves than had been visible fromthe front. The eldest Baudelaire was sorry to stop performing her flaneur errands andbegin her duties as a concierge, but she stepped to the edge of the swimming pool,walking carefully on the tilted roof of the hotel and peering into the clouds of steam.“What is it you want, miss?” she asked, hoping Carmelita would not recognize hervoice.“A harpoon gun, of course!” Carmelita said. “Countie said that I can’t be aballplaying cowboy superhero soldier pirate without a harpoon gun.”“Who’s Countie?” Geraldine asked.“Esmé‘s boyfriend,” Carmelita said. “He thinks I’m the most darling, special littlegirl in the entire world. He said if I used my harpoon gun properly he would teach mehow to spit like a real ballplaying cowboy superhero soldier pirate!”“I can see the headline now,” Geraldine said into her microphone.“‘BALLPLAYING COWBOY SUPERHERO SOLDIER PIRATE LEARNS TOSPIT.” Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio see that!”“I’ll fetch you a harpoon gun, miss.” Violet promised, ducking to avoid theattendant’s spatula, which was overturning a sunbathing woman.“Stop calling me ‘miss,’ you cakesniffer!” Carmelita said. “I’m a ballplayingcowboy superhero soldier pirate!”Fetching objects for people who are too lazy to fetch them for themselves is nevera pleasant task, particularly when the people are insulting you, but as Violet walkedback to the elevator and pressed the button for it to arrive, she was not thinking aboutCarmelita’s atrocious behavior. She was too preoccupied, a word which here means“wondering what exactly Esmé Squalor and Carmelita Spats were doing at the HotelDenouement.” The two unsavory females knew full well about V.F.D. and the plansfor Thursday’s gathering, but the eldest Baudelaire did not believe for a minute thatall they were planning was a cocktail party. As the doors slid open and Violet steppedinside, she wondered why Esmé was using her sunoculars to search the skies. Shewondered what Carmelita wanted with a harpoon gun. She wondered how Esméknew about the impostor J. S., who was apparently lurking around the basement ofthe hotel. But most of all, she wondered where Count Olaf-or, as Carmelita liked tocall him, “Countie”-was hiding, and what treachery he was planning.Violet was thinking so hard about her observations as a flaneur that it was onlywhen the elevator doors shut that she remembered her errand as a concierge, andrealized that she had no idea where to find a harpoon gun. Harpoon guns are not partof the usual equipment provided by a hotel, and the only time Violet had seen such adevice was in Esmé Squalor’s own hands, back when she was disguised as apolicewoman at the Village of Fowl Devotees. Even if the Hotel Denouement hadthought to keep such a thing in the building, Violet could not imagine where shemight find it in the Dewey Decimal System without a catalog. She wished Klauswere with her, as the only number of the Dewey Decimal System she knew by heartwas 621, which labeled her favorite section, applied physics. With a glum sigh, theeldest Baudelaire pressed the button for the lobby.“You’re asking me for help?” cried either Frank or Ernest, when Violet managed tofind him. The lobby of the Hotel Denouement was even more crowded than when theBaudelaires had arrived, and it took Violet a few minutes before she could find thefamiliar figure of the volunteer or his villainous brother. “I’m the one who needshelp,” he said. “An astonishing number of guests have arrived earlier than expected. Ihave no time to be a concierge helper.”“I realize that you’re busy, sir,” Violet said. She knew that calling a person “sir”can often help you get what you want, unless of course the person is a woman. “Aguest has requested a harpoon gun, and I don’t know where to find one. I wish theHotel Denouement had a catalog.”“You shouldn’t need a catalog,” the manager said. “Not if you’re who I think youare.”Violet gasped, and either Frank or Ernest took one step closer to her. “Are you?”he asked. “Are you who I think you are?”Violet blinked behind her sunglasses. There are people in this world who say thatsilence is golden, which simply means that they prefer a calm and peaceful hush tothe noise and clutter of the world. There is nothing wrong with such a preference, butsadly there are times when a calm and peaceful hush is simply not possible. If you arewatching the sun set, for instance, silence may permit you to be alone with yourthoughts as you gaze at the darkening landscape, but it may be necessary to make aloud noise to scare off any grizzly bears that may be approaching. If you are riding ina taxi, you might prefer silence so you can study your map in peace, but the occasionmay require you to shout, “Please turn around! I think, they’ve driven through thosehedges!” And if you have lost a loved one, as the Baudelaires did on the fateful dayof a fire, you may wish very dearly for a long period of silence, so you and yoursiblings can contemplate your puzzling and woeful situation, but you may findyourself tossed from one dangerous situation to another, and another, and another, sothat you begin to think you will never find yourself in a calm and peaceful hush. AsViolet stood in the lobby, she wanted nothing more than to be silent, so that she mightfurther observe the man standing next to her, and discover if he was a volunteer, towhom she could say, “Yes, I’m Violet Baudelaire,” or a villain, to whom she couldsay, “I’m sorry; I don’t know what you’re talking about.” But she knew that shecould not not hope for a calm and peaceful hush in the chaos of Hotel Denouement,and so rather than remain silent she answered the manager’s question as best shecould.“Of course I’m who you think I am,” she said, feeling as if she were talking incode, although in a code she did not know. “I’m a concierge.”“I see,” said Frank or Ernest unfathomably. “And who is requesting the harpoongun?”“A young girl on the roof,” Violet said.“A young girl on the roof,” the manager repeated with a sly smile. “Are you sure aharpoon gun should be given to a young girl on the roof?”Violet did not know how to answer him, but fortunately this appeared to be one ofthe times when silence is in fact golden, because at her silence, Frank or Ernest gavethe eldest Baudelaire another smile and then turned on his heel-a phrase which heremeans “turned around in a somewhat fancy manner”-and beckoned Violet to followhim to a far corner of the lobby, where she saw a small door marked 121. “Thisnumber stands for epistemology,” he explained, using a word which here means“theories of knowledge” and looking hurriedly around the lobby as if he were beingwatched. “I thought it would be a good hiding place.”Frank or Ernest took a key out of his pocket and unlocked the door, which swungopen with a quiet creak to reveal a small, bare closet. The only thing in the closet wasa large, wicked-looking object, with a bright red trigger and four long, sharp hooks.The eldest Baudelaire recognized it from her stay in the Village of Fowl Devotees.She knew it was a harpoon gun, a deadly device that ought not to be in the hands ofanyone, let alone Carmelita Spats. Violet did not want to touch it herself, but as themanager stood at the door gazing at her, she could think of no other choice, andcarefully removed the device from the closet.“Be very careful with this,” the manager said in an unfathomable tone. “A weaponlike this should only be in the hands of the right person. I’m grateful for yourassistance, concierge. Not many people have the courage to help with a scheme likethis.”Violet nodded silently, and silently took the heavy weapon from Frank or Ernest’shands. In silence she walked back to the elevators, her head spinning with hermysterious observations as a flaneur and her mysterious errand as a concierge, and insilence she stood at the sliding elevator doors, wondering which manager she hadspoken to, and what precisely she had said to him in her coded, quiet response. Butjust before the elevator arrived, Violet’s silence was shattered by an enormous noise.The clock in the lobby of the Hotel Denouement is the stuff of legend, a phrasewhich here means “very famous for being very loud.” It is located in the very centerof the ceiling, at the very top of the dome, and when the clock announces the hour, itsbells clang throughout the entire building, making an immense, deep noise thatsounds like a certain word being uttered once for each hour. At this particularmoment, it was three o’clock, and everyone in the hotel could hear the booming ringof the enormous bells of the clock, uttering the word three times in succession:Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! As she boarded the elevator, the harpoon gun heavy andsinister in her gloved hands, Violet Baudelaire felt as if the clock were scolding herfor her efforts at solving the mysteries of the Hotel Denouement. Wrong! She hadtried her best to be a flaneur, but hadn’t observed enough to decode the scheme ofEsmé Squalor and Carmelita Spats. Wrong! She had tried to communicate with oneof the hotel’s managers, but had been unable to discover whether he was Frank orErnest. And-most Wrong! of all - she was now taking a deadly weapon to the rooftopsunbathing salon, where it would serve some unknown, sinister purpose. With eachstrike of the clock, Violet felt wronger and wronger, until at last she reached herdestination, and stepped out of the elevator. She dearly hoped her two siblings hadfound more success in their errands, for as she walked across the roof, avoiding aspatula as it flipped the guests on their mirrored mats, until at last she could hoist theharpoon gun into Carmelita’s eager and ungrateful hands, all the eldest Baudelairecould think was that everything was wrong, wrong, wrong.C H A P T E RFiveWhen the elevator reached the sixth story Klaus bade good-bye to Violet andstepped out into a long, empty hallway The hallway was lined with numbered doors,odd numbers on one side and even numbers on the other, and large ornamental vases,too large to hold flowers and too small to hold spies. On the floor was a smooth, graycarpet that muffled each of the middle Baudelaire’s uncertain steps. Although Klaushad never set foot in the Hotel Denouement before today, walking down the hallwaygave him a familiar feeling. It was the feeling he had whenever he entered a librarywith an important problem to solve, suspecting that somewhere within the library’scollection of books was the perfect answer to whatever question was foremost on hismind. He had this feeling when he and his siblings were living just off Lousy Lane,and he solved the murder of Uncle Monty with crucial information he discovered in aherpetological library. He had this feeling when he and his siblings were deep in theocean, and he managed to dilute the poison infecting Sunny by finding a significantfact in a mycological library belonging to Fiona, a young woman who had brokenKlaus’s heart. And as he stood in the hallway, gazing at all of the numbered doorsthat stretched out as far as his eyes could see, Klaus Baudelaire had the feeling again.Hidden somewhere in this hotel, he was sure, was something or someone that couldanswer all the Baudelaires’ questions, solve all of the Baudelaires’ mysteries, and putan end at last to all the Baudelaires’ woes. It was as if he could hear this answercalling to him, like a baby crying at the bottom of a damp well, or an alarm clockringing underneath a heap of damp blankets.Without a catalog, however, Klaus had no idea where such a solution might be, sohe made his way toward his concierge errand in Room 674, hoping that whatever hewould observe as a flaneur might bring him closer to unraveling the Baudelaires’ listof misfortunes. When he stopped in front of the numbered door, however, it appearedthat he was only adding another misfortune to this woeful list. Smoke was pouringout of the gap between the door and the floor, spreading out across the hallway like asinister stain.“Hello?” Klaus called, knocking on the door.“Hello yourself,” called back a voice that sounded slightly familiar and utterlyunconcerned. “Are you one of those concertinas?”“I’m a concierge,” Klaus said, not bothering to explain that a concertina is a kindof accordion. “Can I be of assistance?”“Of course you can be of assistance!” the voice called back. “That’s why I rang foryou! Enter at once!”Klaus, of course, did not want to enter a room that was filled with smoke, butworking, even for the purposes of secretly observing the mysteries of a hotel, usuallymeans doing things you do not want to do, so the middle Baudelaire opened the door,releasing an enormous amount of smoke into the hallway, and took a few hesitantsteps into the room. Through the smoke he could see a short figure, dressed in a suitof shiny green cloth, standing at the far end of the room, facing the window. Behindhis back he held a cigar that was clearly responsible for all the smoke wafting pastKlaus into the hallway. But Klaus did not care about the smoke. He hardly evennoticed it. He merely stared in dismay at the person standing at the window, a personhe had hoped he would never see again.You have probably heard the tiresome expression “It’s a small world,” whichpeople use to explain a coincidence. For instance, if you walk into an Italianrestaurant and encounter a waiter you recognize, the waiter might cry, “It’s a smallworld!” as if it were unavoidable that the two of you would be at the same restaurantat the same time. But if you’ve ever taken even the shortest of walks, you know thetruth of the matter. It is not a small world. It is a large world, and there are Italianrestaurants sprinkled all over it, employing waiters who have crucial messages foryou and waiters who are trying to make sure you never receive them, and these pairsof waiters are engaged in an argument that began many years ago, when you were soyoung that it was not safe to feed you even the softest of gnocchi. The world is notsmall but enormous, and Klaus had hoped that this enormous world was big enoughthat a guest of the Hotel Denouement employed in the lumber industry and staying inRoom 674 would not be the horrid man who had employed him and his sisters atLucky Smells Lumbermill. During their dreadful stay in Paltryville, the Baudelairesnever saw the man’s face, which was always covered by a cloud of smoke from hiscigar, and they never learned the man’s real name, which was so difficult topronounce that he made everyone call him “Sir,” but they learned plenty about hisgreedy and cruel behavior, and Klaus was not happy to learn that this enormousworld was going to treat him to another helping of Sir’s selfishness.“Well, don’t just stand there!” Sir shouted. “Ask what you can do for me!”“What can I do for you, Sir?” Klaus asked.Sir whirled around, and the cloud around his head whirled around, too. “How didyou know my name?” he asked suspiciously.“The concierge didn’t know your name,” said another voice patiently, and Klaussaw, through the smoke, a second person he had not noticed, sitting on the bed in abathrobe with hotel denouement embroidered on the back. This man was alsofamiliar from the Baudelaires’ days at Lucky Smells, although Klaus did not knowwhether to be happy to see him or not. On one hand, Charles had always been kind tothe children, and although his kindness had not been enough to save them fromdanger, it is always a relief to discover there is a kind person in the room that you hadnot noticed previously. On the other hand, however, Klaus was sorry to see thatCharles was still partners with Sir, who enjoyed bossing around Charles almost asmuch as he did the Baudelaires. “I’m sure the concierge calls all the male guests inthis hotel ‘sir.’”“Of course he does!” Sir shouted. “I’m not an idiot! Now then, concertina, wewant to be taken to the sauna right away!”“Yes sir,” Klaus said, grateful that either Frank or Ernest had mentioned that thesauna was in Room 613. A sauna is a room constructed out of wood and kept very,very hot, in which people can sit in steam, which is believed to be beneficial to one’shealth, and Klaus would have found it very difficult to find such a room in the HotelDenouement without a catalog. “The sauna should be down the hall, on the oppositeside,” Klaus said. “If you gentlemen will follow me, I’ll take you there.”“I’m sorry we made you come all the way to our rooms just to take us right downthe hall,” Charles said.“It’s my pleasure,” Klaus said. As I’m sure you know, when people say, “It’s mypleasure,” they usually mean something along the lines of, “There’s nothing on EarthI would rather do less,” but the middle Baudelaire was hoping that he could learnwhy the Baudelaires’ former guardian and his partner had journeyed from Paltryvilleto the Hotel Denouement.“Let’s go this very instant!” Sir shouted, marching out into the hallway.“Don’t you want to change into a bathing suit?” Charles asked. “If you’re fullyclothed, you won’t get the health benefits of the steam.”“I don’t care about the health benefits of the steam!” Sir shouted. “I’m not anidiot! I just love the smell of hot wood!”Charles sighed, and followed Klaus out of Room 674 and into the hallway. “I washoping my partner would relax during our stay here,” he said, “but I’m afraid he’staking a busman’s holiday.”“Busman’s holiday” is an expression which refers to when people do the samething on vacation that they do in their everyday lives, such as plumbers who visit theMuseum of Sinks, or villains who disguise themselves even on their days off. ButKlaus could not believe that these two men were merely vacationing in the HotelDenouement, just two days before V.F.D. was to gather. “Are you here on business?”he asked, hoping that Charles would keep talking as they approached the sauna.“Don’t tell that concertina anything!” Sir cried, continuing to use the word for“accordion” instead of the word for “hotel employee.” “He’s supposed to be at ourbeck and call, not nosing around in our business like a spy!”“Forgive me, Sir,” Klaus said, as calmly as he could. “We’ve arrived at the sauna.”Sure enough, Klaus, Sir, and Charles had arrived at Room 613, which had a massof steam pouring out of the gap between the door and the floor, like a mirror image ofSir’s cigar smoke pouring out of Room 674. “You can wait outside, concertina,” saidSir. “We’ll shout for you when we’re ready to be escorted back to our room.”“We don’t need to be escorted,” Charles said timidly, opening the door. Inside,Klaus could see nothing but a mass of whirling steam. “It’s just down the hallway.I’m sure the concierge has enough to do without waiting around for us.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate Peril“But someone has to hold my cigar!” Sir shouted. “I can’t walk into a room full ofsteam with a head full of smoke! I’m not an idiot!”“Of course not,” Charles said with a sigh, and walked into the sauna. Sir handedKlaus the cigar and strode into the sauna before the cloud of smoke around his headcould clear. Behind him, the door started to close, but Klaus thought quickly andstuck out his foot. The door remained open just a crack, and as quietly as he could heswung the door back open and slipped inside, pausing to balance Sir’s cigar on therim of one of the ornamental vases. As he suspected, the steam was so thick insidethe sauna that he could not see Sir or his partner, which meant the Paltryville citizenscould not see him, either, while they sat and talked in the heated room. It was aflaneur’s perfect opportunity to eavesdrop on a private conversation.“I wish you could be more polite,” Charles said, his voice drifting through thesteam. “There was no reason to accuse that concierge of being a spy.”“I was just trying to be cautious!” Sir said gruffly, a word which here means “in atone that indicated he had no intention of being more polite.” Klaus heard the crinkleof his shiny suit, and imagined that the lumbermill owner was shrugging. “You’re theone who said enemies might be lurking in this hotel!”“That’s what I was told in the letter I received,” Charles said. “According to J. S.,we must be very cautious if we want to find the Baudelaires.”Klaus was grateful that his amazed expression was hidden in the steam. Themiddle Baudelaire could not imagine why the mysterious impostor J. S. was helpingCharles find him and his sisters, and if it had not been so hot in the sauna he wouldhave broken out in a cold sweat, a phrase which here means “felt very nervous aboutthe conversation he was observing.”“I don’t want to find the Baudelaires!” Sir said. “Those orphans were nothing buttrouble for the lumbermill!”“They weren’t the cause of the trouble,” Charles said. “Count Olaf was. Don’tyou remember?”“Of course I remember!” Sir cried. “I’m not an idiot! Count Olaf disguised himselfas a rather attractive young lady, and worked with that sinister hypnotist to causeaccidents in my mill! If the Baudelaires didn’t have that fortune waiting for them inthe bank, Olaf never would have done all that mischief! It’s the orphans’ fault!”“I suppose you’re right,” Charles said, “but I still would like to find them.According to The Daily Punctilio , the Baudelaires are in a heap of trouble.”“According to The Daily Punctilio ,” Sir said, “the Baudelaires are murderers! Forall we know, that bookworm with the eyeglasses could sneak up on us right here inthe hotel and kill us to death!”“The children aren’t going to murder us,” Charles said, “although after theirexperiences at Lucky Smells I could hardly blame them. In fact, if I manage to findthem, the first thing I’ll do is give them my sincere apologies. Perhaps I can ask oneof the concierges for a pair of binoculars. J. S. said they might be arriving bysubmarine, so I could watch for a periscope rising from the sea.”“I wish our room had a view of the pond instead,” Sir said. “When I’m done with acigar, I like to drop the butt into a calm body of water and watch the pretty ripples.”“I’m not sure that would be good for the pond,” Charles said.“What do I care about the pond?” Sir demanded. “I have better things to do thanworry about the environment. The Finite Forest is running low on trees, so businessis bad for the lumbermill. The last big order we had was for building that horseradishfactory, and that was a very long time ago. I’m hoping Thursday’s cocktail party willbe an excellent opportunity to do some business. After all, if it weren’t for mylumber, this hotel wouldn’t even exist!”“I remember,” Charles said. “We had to deliver the lumber in the middle of thenight. But Sir, you told me you never heard from that organization again.”“I didn’t,” Sir said, “until now. You’re not the only one who gets notes from thisfellow J. S. I’m invited to a party he’s hosting on Thursday night, and he said Ishould bring all my valuables. That must mean plenty of rich people will be thererich people who might want to buy some lumber.”“Perhaps if the lumbermill becomes more successful,” Charles said, “we could payour employees with money, instead of just gum and coupons.”“Don’t be an idiot!” Sir said. “Gum and coupons is a fair deal! If you spent lesstime reading and more time thinking about lumber, you’d care more about money andless about people!”“There’s nothing wrong with caring about people,” Charles said quietly. “I careabout you, Sir. And I care about the Baudelaires. If what J. S. wrote is true, then theirparents-”“Excuse me.” The door of the sauna swung open, and Klaus saw a tall, dim figurestep into the steam.“Is that my concertina?” Sir barked. “I told you to wait outside!”“No, I’m one of the managers of the hotel,” said either Frank or Ernest. “We dohave a concertina available in Room 786, if you’re interested in musical instruments.I’m sorry to interrupt your afternoon, but I’m afraid I must ask all guests to vacate thesauna. A situation has arisen that requires the use of this room. If you are interested insteam, there’s quite a bit of it in Room-”“I don’t care about steam!” cried Sir. “I just like smelling hot wood! Where elsecan I smell hot wood, except in the sauna?”“Room 547 is dedicated to organic chemistry,” replied the manager. “There are allsorts of smelly things there.”Klaus quickly opened the sauna door and pretended to walk inside. “I’d be happyto take our guests to Room 547,” he said, hoping to observe the rest of Sir andCharles’s conversation.“No, no,” the manager said. “You’re needed here, concierge. By a strangecoincidence there happens to be a chemist standing in the hallway who would behappy to escort these two gentlemen.”“Oh, all right!” Sir said, and stomped out of the sauna, where a figure stood in along, white coat and a mask such as surgeons or chemists wear over their noses andmouths. Sir reached down and picked up his cigar from the ornamental vase,restoring the cloud of smoke to his face just as the cloud of steam evaporated, andwithout another word he and his partner followed the chemist away from the sauna,leaving Klaus alone with the volunteer or villain.“Be very careful with this,” said either Frank or Ernest, handing a large, rigidobject to Klaus. It was something flat and wide, rolled into a thick tube like asleeping bag. “When it’s unrolled, the surface is very sticky-so sticky that anything ittouches becomes trapped. Do you know what this is called?”“Flypaper,” Klaus said, remembering a book he had read about the adventures ofan exterminator. “Is the hotel having an insect problem?”“Our problem is not with insects,” the manager said. “It’s with birds. This isbirdpaper. I need you to attach one end to the windowsill of this room, and dangle therest outside, over the pond. Can you guess why?”“To trap birds,” Klaus said.“You’re obviously very well-read,” said Ernest or Frank, although it wasimpossible to tell whether he was impressed or disgusted with this fact. “So youknow that birds can cause all sorts of problems. For instance, I’ve heard about aswarm of eagles that recently stole a great crowd of children. What do you think ofthat?”Klaus gasped. He knew, of course, exactly what he thought of the great swarm ofeagles who kidnapped a troop of Snow Scouts while the Baudelaires were living onMount Fraught . He thought it was horrid, but the face on the volunteer or villain wasso unfathomable that the middle Baudelaire could not tell if the manager thought so,too. “I think it’s remarkable,” Klaus said finally, carefully choosing a word whichhere means either wonderful or horrible.“That’s a remarkable answer,” replied either Frank or Ernest, and then Klaus heardthe manager sigh thoughtfully. “Tell me,” he said, “are you who I think you are?”Klaus blinked behind his glasses, and behind the sunglasses that lay on top ofthem. Deciding on a safe answer to a question is like deciding on a safe ingredient ina sandwich, because if you make the wrong decision you may find that somethinghorrible is coming out of your mouth. As Klaus stood in the sauna, he wanted nothingmore than to decide on a safe answer, such as “Yes, I’m Klaus Baudelaire,” if hewere talking to Frank, or “I’m sorry I don’t know what you’re talking about,” if hewere talking to Ernest. But he knew there was no way to tell if either of thoseanswers was safe, so he opened his mouth and uttered the only other answer he couldthink of.“Of course I’m who you think I am,” he said, feeling as if he were talking in code,although in a code he did not know. “I’m a concierge.”“I see,” said Frank or Ernest, as unfathomable as ever. “I’m grateful for yourassistance, concierge. Not many people have the courage to help with a scheme likethis.”Without another word, the manager left, and Klaus was alone in the sauna.Carefully, he walked through the steam and felt his way to the window, which hemanaged to unlatch and open, swinging a shutter marked d out over the pond. As willhappen when a very hot room is exposed to cold air, the steam raced through thewindow and evaporated. With the steam gone, Klaus could see the wooden walls andbenches that comprised the sauna, and he only wished that everything were as clearin his own head as it was in Room 613. In silence, he attached one end of thebirdpaper to the windowsill, his head spinning with his mysterious observations as aflaneur and his mysterious errand as a concierge, and in silence he dangled the restoutside, where it curved stiffly over the pond like a slide at a playground. In silencehe gazed at this strange arrangement, and wondered which manager had requestedsuch an odd task. But before he could leave the sauna, Klaus’s silence was shatteredby an enormous noise.The clock in the lobby of the Hotel Denouement is the stuff of legend, a phrasewhich here means “very famous for being very loud.” It is located in the very centerof the ceiling, at the very top of the dome, and when the clock announces the hour, itsbells clang throughout the entire building, making an immense, deep noise thatsounds like a certain word being uttered once for each hour. At this particularmoment, it was three o’clock, and everyone in the hotel could hear the booming ringof the enormous bells of the clock, uttering the word three times in succession:Wrong! Wrong! Wrong ! As he turned away from the sauna’s open window andwalked back down the hall toward the elevator doors, Klaus Baudelaire felt as if theclock were scolding him for his efforts at solving the mysteries of the HotelDenouement. Wrong! He had tried his best to be a flaneur, but hadn’t observedenough to know exactly what Sir and Charles were doing at the hotel. Wrong ! Hehad tried to communicate with one of the hotel’s managers, but had been unable todiscover whether he was Frank or Ernest. And- most Wrong! of all -he hadperformed his errand as a concierge, and now a strip of birdpaper was dangling out ofthe Hotel Denouement, where it would serve some unknown, sinister purpose. Witheach strike of the clock, Klaus felt wronger and wronger, and as he stepped inside thesmall elevator, he frowned in thought. He dearly hoped his two siblings had foundmore success in their errands, for as he walked through the sliding doors and pressedthe button to return to the lobby, all the middle Baudelaire could think was thateverything was wrong, wrong, wrong.When the elevator reached the third story, Sunny bid good-bye to her siblings andstepped out into a long, empty hallway. Numbered doors lined the hallway, oddnumbers on one side and even numbers on the other, as well as large, ornamentalvases that were taller than Sunny but not nearly as charming. The youngestBaudelaire walked on the smooth, gray carpet in nervous, uncertain steps. Pretendingto be a concierge in order to be a flaneur, in the hopes of unraveling a mysteryunfolding in an enormous, perplexing hotel, was a difficult enough task for her oldersiblings, but it was particularly difficult for someone just growing out of babyhood.Over the past few months, Sunny Baudelaire had improved her walking abilities,adopted a more standard vocabulary, and even learned how to cook, but she was stillunsure whether she could successfully pass for a hotel professional. As sheapproached the guests who had rung for a concierge, she decided that she wouldadopt a taciturn demeanor, a phrase which here means “only communicate whenabsolutely necessary, so as not to call attention to her youth and relative inexperiencein employment.”When Sunny reached Room 371 she thought at first there had been some mistake.Down in the lobby, either Frank or Ernest had told the Baudelaires that educationalguests were staying in that particular room, but the youngest Baudelaire could notimagine what educational purpose could explain the unearthly sounds coming frombehind the door, unless perhaps a teacher was giving a class on how to torture a smallanimal. Someone-or something-in Room 371 was making dreadful squeaks, strangemoans, piercing whistles, irritating shrieks, mysterious mutterings, and, suddenly, amelodic hum or two, and the sounds were so loud that it was a moment beforeanyone heard Sunny’s gloved fists knocking on the door.“Who dares interrupt a genius when he’s rehearsing?” said a voice that was loud,booming, and strangely familiar.“Concierge,” Sunny called.“Concierge,” the voice mimicked back to Sunny, in a high, squealing tone that theBaudelaire recognized instantly, and to her dismay the door opened and there stood aperson she had hoped she would never encounter again.If you have ever worked someplace and then, later, not worked there, then youknow there are three ways you can leave a job: you can quit, you can be fired, or youcan exit by mutual agreement. “Quit,” as I’m sure you know, is a word which meansthat you were disappointed with your employer. “Fired,” of course, is a word whichmeans that your employer was disappointed with you. And “exit by mutualagreement” is a phrase which means that you wanted to quit, and your employerwanted to fire you, and that you ran out of the office, factory, or monastery beforeanyone could decide who got to go first. In any case, no matter which method youuse to leave a job, it is never pleasant to run into a former employer, because itreminds both of you of all the miserable time you spent working together. I oncethrew myself down a flight of stairs rather than face even one moment with amilliner, at whose shop I quit working after discovering the sinister truth about herberets, only to find that the paramedic who repaired my fractured arm was a man whohad fired me from a job playing accordion in his orchestra after only two and halfperformances of a certain opera. It would be difficult to say whether Sunny ended herbrief stint-a word which here means “dreadful period of time”-working as anadministrative assistant at Prufrock Preparatory School by quitting, getting fired, orexiting by mutual agreement, as she and her siblings were removed from theboarding school after a scheme of Count Olaf’s almost succeeded, but it was stillunpleasant to be face-to-face with Vice Principal Nero after all this time.“What do you want?” Nero demanded, brandishing the violin that had beenmaking all that dreadful noise. Sunny was not pleased to see that Nero’s four pigtails,which were quite short when she had first made the vice principal’s acquaintance,had grown into long, stringy braids, and that he still liked to wear a necktie decoratedwith pictures of snails.“You rang,” Sunny said, as taciturnly as she could.“You rang,” Nero mimicked immediately. “Well, so what if I did? Ringing for youis no excuse for interrupting me while I’m practicing the violin. I have a veryimportant violin recital on Thursday, and I plan on rehearsing every moment untilthen.”“Please, boss,” said another familiar voice, and Nero turned around, his greasybraids swinging behind him. Sunny saw, to her dismay, that Nero was sharing Room371 with two other figures from the Baudelaires’ past. “You said we could stop for alunch break,” continued Mr. Remora, who had been Violet’s teacher at PrufrockPreparatory School, although it would be difficult to say exactly what kind of teacherhe was, as all he liked to do was tell short, pointless stories, and eat banana afterbanana, occasionally smearing the yellow pulp all over his mustache, which was asdark and thick as a gorilla’s thumb.“I’m so hungry I could eat a dekagram of rice,” said Mrs. Bass, who had beenKlaus’s teacher. It was clear that her enthusiasm for measuring things according to themetric system had remained the same, but the youngest Baudelaire noticed that herappearance had changed somewhat. On top of her shaggy, black hair was a small blondwig, like a snowcap on the top of a mountain peak, and she was wearing a small, narrowmask with two tiny holes for her eyes. “I’ve heard there’s a wonderful Indian restaurant inRoom 954.”Normally, Sunny would have replied with “Andiamo,” which was her way ofsaying, “I’d be happy to take you there,” but she was afraid that her manner ofspeaking would give away her true identity, so instead she continued her taciturndemeanor by giving the three guests a little bow, and gesturing down the hallwaywith one of her gloves.Vice Principal Nero looked disappointed, but then gave Sunny a simpering glanceand mimicked her gestures in an insulting way, proving he could mock someone evenif they didn’t speak.“Don’t you think you should bring your loot, Mrs. Bass?” asked Mr. Remora,pointing to the far wall of Room 371.“No, no,” Mrs. Bass said quickly, her eyes blinking nervously through the holes inthe mask. “It’ll be safer in the room.”Sunny tilted her head so she could stare past the teacher’s knees, and made herfirst important observation as a flaneur. Piled on a table in the hotel room, right near awindow overlooking the sea, was a large, bulky pile of large, bulky bags, each withthe words PROPERTY OF MULCTUARY MONEY MANAGEMENT stamped onthem in stern black ink. The youngest Baudelaire could not imagine why Mrs. Basswas in possession of something from the bank where Mr. Poe worked, but with twoteachers and one vice principal waiting impatiently in the hallway, she had no time tostop and think. With another taciturn gesture, she quickly led the guests toward theelevator, grateful that Mrs. Bass knew the location of the restaurant. The youngestBaudelaire would have had no idea how to find an Indian restaurant in the HotelDenouement without a catalog.“I’m very excited about my recital,” Vice Principal Nero said, as the small elevatorbegan its journey to the ninth story. “I’m sure all of the music critics at the cocktailparty will love my performance. As soon as I’m recognized as a genius, I can finallyquit my job at Prufrock Prep!”“How do you know there will be music critics at the party?” Mr. Remora asked.“My invitation just said there’d be an all-you-can-eat banana buffet.”“Mine didn’t say anything about music critics, either,” Mrs. Bass said. “It just saysthat there’s a party in celebration of the metric system, and that I should bring asmany valuables as possible so they could be measured. As a teacher, I don’t earnenough money to purchase any valuables, so I had to resort to a life of crime.”“I had to resort to a life of crime ,” Nero mimicked. “I can’t believe a genius likemyself was invited to the same party as you two. Esmé Squalor and her boyfriendmust have accidentally mailed you those invitations.”Sunny’s eyes narrowed in thought behind her enormous sunglasses. EsméSqualor’s boyfriend, of course, was none other than Count Olaf. After so much timestruggling against his villainous schemes, the youngest Baudelaire was not surprisedto hear that Olaf was planning further treachery, but she could not imagine why hewas luring her former employer to the hotel. She would have loved to continue herobservations as a flaneur, but as the elevator came to a stop, she had to return to herduties as a concierge, and utter at least one taciturn word.“Nine,” she said.“Nine,” Nero mimicked, and pushed his way to the front so he could exit theelevator first. Sunny followed, and quickly guided the three guests to the doornumbered 954, which she opened with a silent flourish.“Can I help you?” asked a wavering voice, and Sunny was astonished to recognizeyet another person from the Baudelaires’ past. He was a very old man, wearing verytiny glasses, each lens scarcely larger than a green pea. When the children had firstmet this man, he had not been wearing a hat of any kind, but today he had wrapped alength of cloth around his head and secured it in place with a shiny red jewel. Sunnyremembered such a turban on the head of Count Olaf when he had disguised himselfas a gym teacher, but she could not guess why such a thing would be worn by theman the Baudelaires had met at Heimlich Hospital .“Can I help you?” Nero mimicked. “Of course you can help us! We’re starving!”“I didn’t realize this was a sad occasion,” said Hal, squinting through his glasses.“It won’t be a sad occasion if you feed us,” Mr. Remora said.Hal frowned, as if Mr. Remora had given the wrong response, but he quicklyushered the three guests to a wooden table in the otherwise deserted restaurant. “Weare proud to serve a wide variety of Indian dishes,” he said, handing out menus andpouring everyone a glass of water. “The culinary history of the region is quiteinteresting, actually. When the British-”“I’ll have ten grams of rice,” Mrs. Bass interrupted, “one tenth of a hectogram ofshrimp vindaloo, a dekagram of chana aloo masala, one thousand centigrams oftandoori salmon, four samosas with a surface area of nineteen cubic centimeters, fivedeciliters of mango lassi, and a sada rava dosai that’s exactly nineteen centimeterslong.”Sunny hoped Hal would talk about some of the dishes Mrs. Bass had ordered, soher observations as a flaneur might also improve her cooking skills, but he merelywrote down her order without comment and turned to Mr. Remora, who wasfrowning at the menu.“I’ll have forty-eight orders of fried bananas,” he said, after much thought.“Interesting choice,” Hal commented. “And you, sir?”“A bag of candy!” Vice Principal Nero demanded. Sunny had almost forgotten thather former employer enjoyed demanding candy from anyone he could.“Candy is not a traditional Indian dish,” Hal said. “If you’re not sure what to order,allow me to recommend the combination plate.”“Allow me to recommend the combination plate!” Nero mimicked, glaring at Hal.“Never mind. I won’t eat anything! It’s probably dangerous to eat candy fromforeigners!”Hal did not reply to this bout of xenophobia-a word for a fear or disgust of foreigncultures that Jerome Squalor had taught the Baudelaires a while ago-but merelynodded. “Your lunches will be ready shortly,” he said. “I’ll be in the kitchen if youneed anything.”“I’ll be in the kitchen if you need anything,” Nero mimicked immediately, as Halwalked through a pair of swinging doors. With a sigh, he moved his water glass offhis placemat and onto the wooden table, where it was sure to leave a ring, and turnedto the two teachers. “That foreigner’s head reminds me of that nice man CoachGenghis.”“Nice man?” Mr. Remora asked. “If I remember correctly, he was a notoriousvillain in disguise.”Mrs. Bass reached up and nervously adjusted her wig. “Just because someone is acriminal,” she said, “does not mean they’re not a nice person. Besides, if you’re onthe run from the law, you’re bound to get cranky from time to time.”“Speaking of running from the law-” Mr. Remora said, but the vice principal cutoff his sentence with a glare.“We’ll talk about that later,” he said quickly, and then turned to Sunny.“Concierge, go get us some napkins,” he said, clearly inventing an excuse to get theyoungest Baudelaire out of earshot. “Just because I’m not eating doesn’t mean I can’tget food on my chin!”Sunny nodded taciturnly, and walked toward the swinging doors. As a flaneur, shewas sorry to halt her observations, particularly when the guests of Room 371 seemedabout to discuss something important. But as a budding gourmand-a phrase whichhere means “young girl with a strong interest in cooking”-she was eager to get a lookat a restaurant kitchen. Ever since Justice Strauss had taken the Baudelaires to themarket in order to buy ingredients to make puttanesca sauce, Sunny had beeninterested in the culinary arts, although it was only recently that she had maturedenough to develop this interest. If you have never taken a peek inside a restaurantkitchen, it is something you may want to try, because it is full of interesting items andit is usually quite easy to sneak in, providing that you don’t mind being glared at ifyou are discovered. But when Sunny stepped through the swinging doors, she did notnotice a single interesting item in the kitchen. For one thing, the kitchen was swirlingwith steam, from a dozen pots that were boiling in every corner of the room. Thecloudy air made it difficult to see much of anything, but that was not the main reasonSunny was ignoring the culinary equipment. There was a conversation going onbetween two unfathomable figures in the room, and what was being said was farmore interesting than any ingredient or gadget used in preparing traditional Indiandishes.“I have news from J. S.,” either Frank or Ernest was whispering to Hal. Both menwere standing with their backs to Sunny and leaning in toward one another so theycould talk as quietly as possible. Sunny maneuvered into the middle of a particularlythick cloud of steam so that she wouldn’t be seen.“J. S.?” Hal said. “She’s here?”“She’s here to help,” the manager corrected. “She’s been using her VisionFurthering Device to watch the skies, and I’m afraid she reports that we will all beeating crow.”“I’m sorry to hear that,” Hal said. “Crow is a tough bird to cook, because the meatis very muscular from all the carrying that crows do.”Sunny scratched her head with one glove in puzzlement. The expression “eatingcrow” simply means “enduring humiliation,” and the youngest Baudelaire hadlearned it from her parents, who liked to tease each other after playing one another atbackgammon. “Bertrand,” Sunny could remember her mother saying, tossing the diceto the ground in triumph, “I have won again. Prepare to eat crow.” Then, with agleam in her eyes, she would pounce on Sunny’s father and tickle him, while theBaudelaire children piled on top of their parents in a laughing heap. But Hal seemedto be discussing the eating of crow as an actual culinary dish, rather than a figure ofspeech, and the youngest Baudelaire wondered if there were more to this Indianrestaurant than she had thought.“It is a shame,” agreed either Frank or Ernest. “If only there was something thatcould make the dish a little sweeter. I’ve heard that certain mushrooms are available.”“Sugar would be better than mushrooms,” Hal said unfathomably.“According to our calculations, the sugar will be laundered sometime afternightfall,” replied the manager, equally unfathomably.“I’m glad,” Hal said. “My job’s been difficult enough. Do you know how manyleaves of lettuce I’ve had to send up to the roof?”Frank or Ernest frowned. “Tell me,” he said, in an even more quiet tone of voice.“Are you who I think you are?”“Are you who I think you are?” replied Hal, equally quietly.Sunny crept closer, hoping to hear more of the conversation to learn if either Frankor Ernest was referring to the Medusoid Mycelium, which was a type of mushroom,or if Hal was referring to the sugar bowl. But to the youngest Baudelaire’s dismay thefloor creaked slightly, and the cloud of steam swirled away, and Hal and Ernest, orperhaps Frank, spun around to gasp at her.“Are you who I think you are?” said the two men in unison.One of the advantages of being taciturn is that it is rare for your words to get youinto trouble. A taciturn writer, for instance, might produce only one short poem everyten years, which is unlikely to annoy anyone, whereas someone who writes twelve orthirteen books in a relatively short time is likely to find themselves hiding under thecoffee table of a notorious villain, holding his breath, hoping nobody at the cocktailparty will notice the trembling backgammon set, and wondering, as the ink stainspreads across the carpeting, if certain literary exercises have been entirelyworthwhile. If Sunny had decided to adopt a chatty demeanor, she would have had tothink of a lengthy reply to the question she had just been asked, and she could notimagine what that reply might be. If she knew that the manager in the kitchen wasFrank, she would say something along the lines of, “Sunny Baudelaire please help,”which was her way of saying, “Yes, I’m Sunny Baudelaire, and my siblings and Ineed your help uncovering the mysterious plot unfolding in the Hotel Denouement,and signaling our findings to the members of V.F.D.” If she knew that it was Ernestwho was staring at her, she would say something more like, “No Habla Esperanto,”which was her way of saying, “I’m sorry; I don’t know what you’re talking about.”The presence of Hal, of course, made the situation even more complicated, becausethe children had exited their employment at Heimlich Hospital’s Library of Recordsby mutual agreement, as Hal believed that they were responsible for lighting theLibrary of Records on fire, and the Baudelaires needed to flee the hospital as quicklyas possible, but Sunny had no way of knowing if Hal continued to hold a grudge-aphrase which here means “was an enemy of the Baudelaires”-or if he was working atthe hotel as a volunteer. But Sunny had adopted a taciturn demeanor, and a taciturnanswer was all that was required.“Concierge,” she said, and that was enough. Hal looked at Frank, or perhaps it wasErnest, and Ernest, or perhaps it was Frank, looked back at Hal. The two mennodded, and then crossed to a shiny cabinet at the far end of the kitchen. Hal openedthe cabinet and handed a large, strange object to either Frank or Ernest, who looked itover and handed it to Sunny. The object was like a large, metal spider, with curlywires spreading out in all directions, but where the head of the spider might havebeen was the keyboard of a typewriter.“Do you know what this is?” asked the villain or volunteer.“Yes,” the youngest Baudelaire said. Sunny had never seen such a device, but hersiblings had described the strange lock they had encountered in a secret passagewayhidden deep within the Mortmain Mountains . Had it not been for Violet’s knowledgeof science and Klaus’s remarkable memory for Russian literature, they might neverhave opened the lock, and Sunny would still be Count Olaf’s captive.“Be very careful with it,” said either Frank or Ernest. “When you place this deviceon the knob of an ordinary door, and press the letters V, F, and D, it will become aVernacularly Fastened Door. I want you to take the elevator to the basement, andvernacularly fasten Room 025.”“That’s the laundry room, you know,” said Hal, squinting at Sunny through hisglasses. “As with many laundry rooms, there’s a vent, which funnels the steam fromall the washing machines to the outside, so the room doesn’t overheat.”“But if something were to fall from the sky at just the right angle,” said Frank orErnest, “it might fall down the funnel and into the room. And if that something werevery valuable, then the room ought to be locked up tight, so that the item would notfall into the wrong hands.”Sunny Baudelaire had no idea what these two adults were talking about, andwished that she were still standing unnoticed in the steam, so she could observe therest of their conversation. But she gripped the strange lock in her gloved hands andknew that it was not time to be a flaneur.“I’m grateful for your assistance, concierge,” Frank said, or maybe it was Ernest,or maybe the man answering was neither brother. “Not many people have the courageto help with a scheme like this.”Sunny gave one more taciturn nod, and turned to exit the kitchen. In silence shewalked through the swinging doors and across the restaurant, not even pausing tolisten to the whispered conversation Vice Principal Nero was having with Mr.Remora and Mrs. Bass, and in silence she opened the door to Room 954 and walkeddown the hallway to the elevator. It was only when she was traveling down to thebasement that Sunny’s silence was shattered by an enormous noise.The clock in the lobby of the Hotel Denouement is the stuff of legend, a phrasewhich here means “very famous for being very loud.” It is located in the very centerof the ceiling, at the very top of the dome, and when the clock announces the hour, itsbells clang throughout the entire building, making an immense, deep noise thatsounds like a certain word being uttered once for each hour. At this particularmoment, it was three o’clock, and everyone in the hotel could hear the booming ringof the enormous bells of the clock, uttering the word three times in succession:Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!As she walked through the sliding doors of the elevator and down the basementhallway, past the ornamental vases and numbered doors, Sunny Baudelaire felt as ifthe clock were scolding her for her efforts at solving the mysteries of the HotelDenouement. Wrong! She had tried her best to be a flaneur, but hadn’t observedenough to discover what two teachers and a vice principal from Prufrock PreparatorySchool were doing at the hotel. Wrong! She had tried to communicate with one of thehotel’s managers, but had been unable to discover whether he was Frank or Ernest, orwhether Hal was a volunteer or an enemy. And-most Wrong! of all -she wasperforming an errand as a concierge, and was now turning the entrance to the laundryroom into a Vernacularly Fastened Door for some unknown, sinister purpose. Witheach strike of the clock, Sunny felt wronger and wronger, until at last she reachedRoom 025, where a washerwoman with long, blond hair and rumpled clothing wasjust shutting the door on her way out. With a hurried nod, the washer woman paddeddown the hallway. Sunny dearly hoped her two siblings had found more success intheir errands, for as she placed the lock on the doorknob, and typed the letters V-F-Dinto the typewriter keyboard, all the youngest Baudelaire could think was thateverything was wrong, wrong, wrong.A L S O N O T A C H A P T E RAt this point, the history of the Baudelaire orphans reverts to its sequential format,and if you are interested in finishing the story, you should read the chapters in theorder in which they appear, although I dearly hope you are not interested in finishingthe story, any more than the story is interested in finishing you.C H A P T E RSevenQuite a few things happened that day after the clock struck three and each Wrong!echoed throughout the immense and perplexing world of the Hotel Denouement. Onthe ninth story, a woman was suddenly recognized by a chemist, into a walkie-talkie.On the sixth story, one of the was reported by an ambidextrous man who spoke andthe two of them had a fit of giggles. In the basement, a strange sight housekeepersremoved a disguise, and drilled a hole behind an ornamental vase in order to examinethe cables that held one of the elevators in place, while listening to the faint sound ofa very annoying song coming from a room just above her. In Room 296, a volunteersuddenly realized that the Hebrew language is read from right to left rather than leftto right, which meant that it should be read from left to right rather than right to leftin the mirror, and in the coffee shop, located in Room 178, a villain requested sugarin his coffee, was immediately thrown to the floor so a waitress could see if he had atattoo on his ankle, and then received an apology and a free slice of rhubarb pie forall his trouble. In Room 174, a banker picked up the phone only to find no one on theline, and in Room 594, a family sat unnoticed among tanks of tropical fish, with onlya suitcase of dirty laundry for company, unaware that underneath a cushion of a sofain the lobby was the doily for which they had been searching for more than nineyears. Just outside the hotel, a taxi driver gazed down at the funnel spouting steaminto the sky, and wondered if a certain man with an unusually shaped back wouldever return and claim the suitcases that still lay in the trunk, and on the other side ofthe hotel, a woman in a diving helmet and a shiny suit shone a flashlight through thewater and tried to see to the murky bottom of the sea. At the opposite end of the city,a long, black automobile took a woman away from a man she loved, and in anothercity, miles and miles from the Baudelaires, four children played at the beach,unaware that they were about to receive some very dreadful news, and in yet anothercity, neither the one where the Baudelaires lived nor the one I just mentioned,someone else learned something and there was some sort of fuss, or so I have beenled to believe. With each Wrong! of the clock, as the afternoon slipped into evening,countless things happened, not only in the immense and perplexing world of theHotel Denouement, but also in the immense and perplexing world that lay outside itsbrick walls, but the Baudelaire orphans did not think of any of these things. Curiously, their errands as concierges kept them in the lobby for the rest of the afternoon, sothey had no more occasion to venture into the small elevators and observe anythingfurther as flaneurs, and spent the hours fetching things back and forth across thelobby, but the siblings did not think of the objects they were fetching, or the guestswho were waiting for them, or even the tall, skinny figure of either Frank or Ernest,who would occasionally rush by them on errands of his own. As evening approached,and the bells behind their desk rang less and less frequently, Violet, Klaus, and Sunnythought only of the things that had happened to them. They thought only of whateach of them had observed, and they wondered what in the world it all might mean.Finally, just as either Frank or Ernest had predicted, night arrived and the hotelgrew very quiet, and the three siblings gathered behind the large, wooden desk totalk, leaning their backs against the wall and stretching out their legs until their feetalmost touched the bells. Violet told the story of Esmé Squalor, Carmelita Spats, andGeraldine Julienne in the rooftop sunbathing salon, and either Frank or Ernest in thelobby. Klaus told the story of Sir and Charles in Room 674, and either Frank orErnest in the sauna. And Sunny told the story of Vice Principal Nero, Mr. Remora,and Mrs. Bass in Room 371, and either Frank or Ernest, and Hal in the Indianrestaurant in Room 954. Klaus took careful note of everything in his commonplacebook, giving the book to Violet when it was his turn to speak, and all threeBaudelaires interrupted each other with questions and ideas, but when all the storieshad been told, and the children looked at the countless details inked onto the paper,everything that happened to them was as mysterious as it had been that morning.“It just doesn’t make any sense,” Violet said. “Why is Esmé Squalor planning aparty? Why did Carmelita Spats request a harpoon gun?”“Why are Sir and Charles here?” Klaus asked. “Why is there birdpaper hangingout of the window of the sauna?”“Why Nero?” Sunny asked. “Why Remora? Why Bass? Why Hal?”“Who is J. S.?” Violet asked. “Is he a man lurking in the basement, or is she awoman watching the skies?”“Where is Count Olaf?” Klaus asked. “Why has he invited so many of our formerguardians here to the hotel?”“Frankernest,” Sunny said, and this was perhaps the most mysterious question ofall. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny had each encountered one of the managers justmoments before the clock struck three. Kit Snicket had told them that if theyobserved everyone they saw, they could tell the villains from the volunteers, but theBaudelaires did not know which sibling had encountered which manager, and theysimply could not imagine how two people could be in three places at once. TheBaudelaires pondered their situation in a silence broken only by a strange, repetitivesound that seemed to be coming from outside. For a moment, this sound was yetanother mystery, but the siblings soon realized it was the croaking of frogs. The pondmust have had thousands of frogs living in its depths, and now that night had arrived,the frogs had come to the surface and were communicating with one another in theguttural sound of their species.It was an unfathomable sound, as if even the natural world were a code theBaudelaires could not decipher.“Kit said that all would not go well,” Violet said. “She said our errands may benoble, but that we would not succeed.”“That’s true,” agreed Klaus. “She said all our hopes would go up in smoke, andmaybe she was right. We each observed a different story, but none of the storiesmakes any sense.”“Elephant,” Sunny said.Violet and Klaus looked at their sister curiously.“Poem,” she said. “Father.”Violet and Klaus looked at one another in puzzlement.“Elephant,” Sunny insisted, but this was one of the rare occasions that Violet andKlaus did not understand what their sister was saying. The brow furrowed on Sunny’slittle forehead as she struggled to remember something that might help make herselfclear to her siblings. Finally, she looked up at Violet and Klaus. “John GodfreySaxe,” she said, and all three Baudelaires smiled.The name John Godfrey Saxe is not likely to mean anything to you, unless you area fan of American humorist poets of the nineteenth century. There are not many suchpeople in the world, but the Baudelaires’ father was one of them, and had severalpoems committed to memory. From time to time he would get into a whimsicalmood-the word “whimsical,” as you probably know, means “odd and impulsive”-andwould grab the nearest Baudelaire child, bounce him or her up and down on his lap,and recite a poem by John Godfrey Saxe about an elephant. In the poem, six blindmen encountered an elephant for the first time and were unable to agree on what theanimal was like. The first man felt the tall, smooth side of the elephant, andconcluded that an elephant was like a wall. The second man felt the tusk of theelephant, and decided that an elephant resembled a spear. The third man felt the trunkof the elephant, and the fourth felt one of the elephant’s legs, and so on and so on,with all of the blind men bickering over what an elephant is like. As with manychildren, Violet and Klaus had grown old enough to find their father’s whimsicalmoods a little embarrassing, so Sunny had become the primary audience for Mr.Baudelaire’s poetry recital, and remembered the poem best.“That poem could have been written about us,” Violet said. “We’ve each observedone tiny part of the puzzle, but none of us has seen the entire thing.”“Nobody could see the entire thing,” Klaus said. “There’s a mystery behind everydoor at the Hotel Denouement, and nobody can be everywhere at once, observing allthe volunteers and all the villains.”“We’ve still got to try,” Violet said. “Kit said that the sugar bowl was on its way tothis hotel. We have to stop it from falling into the hands of the impostor.”“But the sugar bowl could be hidden anywhere,” Klaus said, “and the impostorcould be anyone. Everyone we observed was talking about J. S., but we still don’tknow who he or she is.”“‘Each was partly in the right,’” Sunny recited, from the penultimate verse of theelephant poem.Her siblings smiled, and chimed in to finish the line. “‘And all were in thewrong,’” they said together, but the last word was drowned out by another sound, orperhaps it would be more proper to say that the last “wrong” was drowned out byanother. Wrong! called the clock of the Hotel Denouement. Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong !“It’s late,” Klaus said, as the twelfth Wrong! faded . “I hadn’t realized we’d beentalking for so long.” He and his sisters stood up and stretched, and saw that the lobbyhad grown empty and silent. The lid of the grand piano was closed. The cascadingfountain had been turned off. Even the reception desk was empty, as if the HotelDenouement was not expecting any more guests until the morning. The light from thefrog-shaped lamp, and of course the Baudelaires themselves, were the only signs oflife underneath the enormous domed ceiling.“I guess the guests are asleep,” Violet said, “or they’re staying up all night reading,like Frank said.”“Or Ernest,” Sunny reminded her.“Maybe we should try to sleep as well,” Klaus said. “We have one more day tosolve these mysteries, and we should be well-rested when that day arrives.”“I suppose there won’t be much to observe after dark,” Violet said.“Tired,” Sunny yawned.The siblings nodded, but all three orphans just stood there. It did not seem right tosleep when so many enemies were lurking around the hotel, hatching sinister plots.But such events go on every night, not just in the Hotel Denouement but all over theworld, and even the noblest of volunteers needs to get a little shut-eye, a phrasewhich here means “lie down behind a large, wooden desk and hope that nobody ringsfor the concierge until morning.” The children would have preferred morecomfortable sleeping circumstances, of course, but it had been a very long time sincesuch circumstances were available, and so without any further discussion they bidone another good night, and Klaus reached up and turned off the frog-shaped lamp.For a moment the three children lay there in the darkness, listening to the croakingcoming from the pond outside.“It’s dark,” Sunny said. The youngest Baudelaire was not particularly afraid of thedark, but just felt like mentioning it, in case her siblings were nervous.“It is dark,” Violet agreed, with a yawn. “With my sunglasses on, it’s as dark aswhat did Kit Snicket say?-as dark as a crow flying through a pitch black night.”“That’s it,” Klaus said suddenly. His sisters heard him stand up in the dark, andthen he turned the frog lamp back on, making them both blink behind theirsunglasses.“What’s it?” Violet said. “I thought we were going to sleep.”“How can we sleep,” Klaus asked, “when the sugar bowl is being delivered to thehotel this very night?”“What?” Sunny asked. “How?”Klaus pulled his commonplace book out of his pocket and flipped to the notes hehad taken on what the Baudelaires had observed. “By crow,” he said.“Crow?” Violet said.“It wouldn’t be the first time crows have carried something important,” Klaus said,reminding his sisters of the crows in the Village of Fowl Devotees, who had broughtthe Baudelaires messages from the Quagmires. “That’s what Esmé Squalor has beenwatching for with her Vision Furthering Device.”“J. S. too,” Sunny said, remembering what either Frank or Ernest had said aboutwatching the skies.“And that’s why Carmelita Spats had me fetch a harpoon gun,” Violet saidthoughtfully. “To shoot down the crows, so V.F.D. can never get the sugar bowl.”“And that’s why either Frank or Ernest had me hang birdpaper outside the windowof the sauna,” Klaus said. “If the crows are hit with the harpoon gun, they’ll fall ontothe birdpaper, and he’ll know that the delivery had been unsuccessful.”“But was it Frank who had you lay out the birdpaper,” Violet asked, “or Ernest? Ifit was Frank, then the birdpaper will serve as a signal to volunteers that they havebeen defeated. And if it was Ernest, then the birdpaper will serve as a signal tovillains that they have triumphed.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate Peril“And what about the sugar bowl?” Klaus asked. “The crows will drop the sugarbowl if the harpoon hits them.” He frowned at a page of his commonplace book. “Ifthe crows drop a heavy object like that,” he said, “it will fall straight down into thepond.”“Maybe no,” Sunny said.“Where else could it land?” Violet said.“Spynsickle,” Sunny said, which was her way of saying “laundry room.”“How would it get into the laundry room?” Klaus asked.“The funnel,” Sunny said. “Frank said. Or Ernest.”“So they had you place a lock on the laundry room door,” Violet said, “so thatnobody could get to the sugar bowl.”“But did Frank have Sunny activate the lock,” Klaus asked, “or Ernest? If it wasFrank, then the sugar bowl is locked away from any villains who want to get theirhands on it. But if it was Ernest, then the sugar bowl is locked away from anyvolunteers who ought to get their hands on it.”“J. S.,” Sunny said.“J. S. is the key to the entire mystery,” Violet agreed. “Esmé Squalor thinks J. S. isspoiling the party. Sir thinks J. S. is hosting the party. Hal thinks J. S. might be hereto help. Kit thinks J. S. might be an enemy. And we still don’t even know if J. S. is aman or a woman!”“Like blind men,” Sunny said, “with elephant.”“We have to find J. S.,” Klaus agreed, “but how? Trying to locate one guest in anenormous hotel is like finding one book in a library.”“A library without a catalog,” Violet said quietly, and the three Baudelairesexchanged sad glances by the light of the frog-shaped lamp. The children haduncovered countless secrets in libraries under the most desperate of circumstances.They had decoded a message in a library while a hurricane raged outside, and hadfound important information while a sinister person chased them around a library inwicked shoes. They had discovered crucial facts in a library that held only threebooks, and obtained a vital map in a library that was only a pile of papers hiddenunderneath a table. The Baudelaires had even found the answers they were lookingfor in a library that had burned down, leaving only a few scraps of paper and a mottoetched on an iron archway. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny stood for a moment at theconcierge desk and thought of all the libraries they had seen, and wondered if any ofthe secrets they had uncovered would help them find what they were looking for inthe perplexing library of the Hotel Denouement.“The world is quiet here,” Sunny said, reciting the motto her siblings had found,and as her words echoed in the lobby, they heard a noise above them, a quietshuffling from the enormous dome, scarcely audible over the sound of the croakingfrogs. The shuffling grew louder, but the Baudelaires could not see anything in theblackness over their heads, which was as dark as a crow flying through a pitch blacknight. Finally, Violet lifted the frog-shaped lamp as far as its cord would allow, andall three children removed their sunglasses. Faintly, they could see a shadowy shapelowering itself from the machinery of the clock using what looked like a thick rope. Itwas an eerie sight, like a spider lowering itself to the center of a web, but theBaudelaires could not help but admire the skill with which it was done. With only aslight shuffle, the shape drew closer and closer, until at last the children could see itwas a man, tall and skinny, with his legs and arms sticking out at odd angles, as if hewere made of drinking straws instead of flesh and bone. The man was climbing downa rope he was unraveling at the same time, which is an activity I do not recommendunless you’ve had the proper training, and unfortunately the best trainer has beenforced to go into hiding ever since a certain mountain headquarters was destroyed byarson, and he now earns his living doing spider imitations in a traveling show.Finally, the man was quite close to the ground, and with an elegant flourish he let goof the rope and landed silently on the floor. Then he strode toward the Baudelaires,pausing only to brush a speck of dust off the word MANAGER which was printed infancy script over one of the pockets of his coat. “Good evening, Baudelaires,” theman said. “Forgive me for not revealing myself earlier, but I had to be sure that youwere who I thought you were. It must have been very confusing to wander aroundthis hotel without a catalog to help you.”“So there is a catalog?” Klaus asked.“Of course there’s a catalog,” the man said. “You don’t think I’d organize thisentire building according to the Dewey Decimal System and then neglect to add acatalog, do you?”“But where is the catalog?” Violet asked.The man smiled. “Come outside,” he said, “and I’ll show you.”“Trap,” Sunny murmured to her siblings, who nodded in agreement.“We’re not following you,” Violet said, “until we know that you’re someone wecan trust.”The man smiled. “I don’t blame you for being suspicious,” he said. “When I usedto meet your father, Baudelaires, we would recite the work of an American humoristpoet of the nineteenth century, so we could recognize one another in our disguises.”He stopped in the middle of the lobby, and with a gesture from one of his odd, skinnyarms, he began to recite a poem:“So oft in theologic wars, The disputants, I ween, Rail on in utter ignorance Of whateach other mean, And prate about an Elephant Not one of them has seen!”The words of the American humorist poets of the nineteenth century are oftenconfusing, as they are liable to use such terms as “oft,” which is a nineteenth-centuryabbreviation for “often”; “disputants,” which refers to people who are arguing;“ween,” which means “think”; and “rail on,” which means to bicker for hours on end,the way you might do with a family member who is particularly bossy. Such poetsmight use the word “prate,” which means “chatter,” and they might spend an entirestanza discussing “theologic wars,” a term which refers to arguing over whatdifferent people believe, the way you might also do with a family member who isparticularly bossy. Even the Baudelaires, who’d had the works of American humoristpoets of the nineteenth century recited to them many times over their childhood, hadtrouble understanding everything in the stanza, which simply made the point that allof the blind men in the poem were arguing pointlessly. But Violet, Klaus, and Sunnydid not need to know exactly what the stanza meant. They only needed to know whowrote it.“Very good,” the man said, and he walked across the shiny, silent floor of thelobby, pulling the rope down from the ceiling and tucking it into his belt.“And who are you?” Violet called.“Can’t you guess?” the man asked, pausing at the large, curved entrance. TheBaudelaires hurried to catch up with him as he turned to exit the hotel.“Frank?” Klaus said.“No,” the man said, and began to walk down the stairs. The Baudelaires took astep outside, where the croaking of the frogs in the pond was considerably louder,although the children could not see the pond through the cloud of steam coming fromthe funnel. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked at one another cautiously, and then beganto follow.“Ernest?” Sunny asked.The man smiled, and kept walking down the stairs, disappearing into the steam.“No,” he said, and the Baudelaire orphans stepped out of the hotel and disappearedalong with him.C H A P T E REightThe word “denouement” is not only the name of a hotel or the family whomanages it, particularly nowadays, when the hotel and all its secrets have almost beenforgotten, and the surviving members of the family have changed their names and areworking in smaller, less glamorous inns. “Denouement” comes from the French, whouse the word to describe the act of untying a knot, and it refers to the unraveling of aconfusing or mysterious story, such as the lives of the Baudelaire orphans, or anyoneelse you know whose life is filled with unanswered questions. The denouement is themoment when all of the knots of a story are untied, and all the threads are unraveled,and everything is laid out clearly for the world to see. But the denouement should notbe confused with the end of a story. The denouement of “Snow White,” for instance,occurs at the moment when Ms. White wakes up from her enchanted sleep, anddecides to leave the dwarves behind and marry the handsome prince, and themysterious old woman who gave her an apple has been exposed as the treacherousqueen, but the end of “Snow White” occurs many years later, when a horsebackriding accident plunges Ms. White into a fever from which she never recovers. Thedenouement of “Goldilocks and the Three Bears” occurs at the moment when thebears return home to find Goldilocks napping on their private property, and eitherchase her away from the premises, or eat her, depending on which version you havein your library, but the end of “Goldilocks and the Three Bears” occurs when a troopof young scouts neglect to extinguish their campfire and even the efforts of avolunteer fire department cannot save most of the wildlife from certain death. Thereare some stories in which the denouement and the end occur simultaneously, such asLa Forza del Destino, in which the characters recognize and destroy one another overthe course of a single song, but usually the denouement of a story is not the last eventin the heroes’ lives, or the last trouble that befalls them. It is often the second-to-lastevent, or the penultimate peril. As the Baudelaire orphans followed the mysteriousman out of the hotel and through the cloud of steam to the edge of the reflectivepond, the denouement of their story was fast approaching, but the end of their storystill waited for them, like a secret still covered in fog, or a distant island in the midstof a troubled seasea, whose waves raged against the shores of a city and the walls ofa perplexing hotel.“You must have thousands of questions, Baudelaires,” said the man. “And justthink- right here is where they can be answered.”“Who are you?” Violet asked.“I’m Dewey Denouement,” Dewey Denouement replied. “The third triplet.Haven’t you heard of me?”“No,” Klaus said. “We thought there were only Frank and Ernest.”“Frank and Ernest get all the attention,” Dewey said. “They get to walk around thehotel managing everything, while I just hide in the shadows and wind the clock.” Hegave the Baudelaires an enormous sigh, and scowled into the depths of the pond.“That’s what I don’t like about V.F.D.,” he said. “All the smoke and mirrors.”“Smoke?” Sunny asked.“‘Smoke and mirrors,’” Klaus explained, “means ‘trickery used to cover up thetruth.’ But what does that have to do with V.F.D.?”“Before the schism,” Dewey said, “V.F.D. was like a public library. Anyone couldjoin us and have access to all of the information we’d acquired. Volunteers all overthe globe were reading each other’s research, learning of each other’s observations,and borrowing each other’s books. For a while it seemed as if we might keep thewhole world safe, secure, and smart.”“It must have been a wonderful time,” Klaus said.“I scarcely remember it,” Dewey said. “I was four years old when the schismbegan. I was scarcely tall enough to reach my favorite shelf in the family library-thebooks labeled 020. But one night, just as our parents were hanging balloons for ourfifth birthday party, my brothers and I were taken.”“Taken where?” Violet asked.“Taken by whom?” Sunny asked.“I admire your curiosity,” Dewey said. “The woman who took me said that onecan remain alive long past the usual date of disintegration if one is unafraid ofchange, insatiable in intellectual curiosity, interested in big things, and happy in smallways. And she took me to a place high in the mountains, where she said such thingswould be encouraged.”Klaus opened his commonplace book and began to take furious notes. “Theheadquarters,” Klaus said, “in the Valley of Four Drafts.”“Your parents must have missed you,” Violet said.“They perished that very night,” Dewey said, “in a terrible fire. I don’t have to tellyou how badly I felt when I learned the news.”The Baudelaires sighed, and looked out at the pond. Here and there on its calmsurface they could see the reflections of a few lights in the windows, but most of thehotel was dark, so most of the pond was dark, too. The triplet, of course, did not haveto tell the Baudelaires how it felt to lose one’s parents so suddenly, or at such a youngage. “It was not always this way, Baudelaires,” Dewey said. “Once there were safeplaces scattered across the globe, and so orphans like yourselves did not have towander from place to place, trying to find noble people who could be of assistance.With each generation, the schism gets worse. If justice does not prevail, soon therewill be no safe places left, and nobody left to remember how the world ought to be.”“I don’t understand,” Violet said. “Why weren’t we taken, like you?”“You were,” Dewey said. “You were taken into the custody of Count Olaf. And hetried to keep you in his custody, no matter how many noble people intervened.”“But why didn’t anyone tell us what was going on?” Klaus asked. “Why did wehave to figure things out all by ourselves?”“I’m afraid that’s the wicked way of the world,” Dewey said, with a shake of hishead. “Everything’s covered in smoke and mirrors, Baudelaires. Since the schism, allthe research, all the observations, even all of the books have been scattered all overthe globe. It’s like the elephant in the poem your father loved. Everyone has theirhands on a tiny piece of the truth, but nobody can see the whole thing. Very soon,however, all that will change.”“Thursday,” Sunny said.“Exactly,” Dewey said, smiling down at the youngest Baudelaire. “At long last, allof the noble people will be gathered together, along with all the research they’vedone, all the observations they’ve made, all the evidence they’ve collected, and allthe books they’ve read. Just as a library catalog can tell you where a certain book islocated, this catalog can tell you the location and behavior of every volunteer andevery villain.” He gestured to the hotel. “For years,” he said, “while noble peoplewandered the world observing treachery, my comrade and I have been right heregathering all the information together. We’ve copied every note from everycommonplace book from every volunteer and compiled it all into a catalog.Occasionally, when volunteers have been lost or safe places destroyed, we’ve had togo ourselves to collect the information that has been left behind. We’ve retrievedJosephine Anwhistle’s files from Lake Lachrymose and carefully copied down theircontents. We’ve pasted together the burnt scraps of Madame Lulu’s archival libraryand taken notes on what we’ve found. We’ve searched the childhood home of theman with a beard but no hair, and interviewed the math teacher of the woman withhair but no beard. We’ve memorized important articles within the stacks ofnewspaper in Paltryville, and we’ve thrown important items out of the windows ofour destroyed headquarters, so they might wind up somewhere safe at sea. We’vetaken every crime, every theft, every wicked deed, and every incident of rudenesssince the schism began, and cataloged them into an entire library of misfortune.Eventually, every crucial secret ends up in my catalog. It’s been my life’s work. It hasnot been an easy life, but it has been an informative one.”“You’re more than a volunteer,” Violet said. “You’re a librarian.”“I’m more of a sub-sub-librarian,” Dewey said modestly. “That’s what yourparents used to call me, because my library work has been largely undercover andunderground. Every villain in the world would want to destroy all this evidence, soit’s been necessary to hide my life’s work away.”“But where could you hide something that enormous?” Klaus said. “It would belike hiding an elephant. A catalog that immense would have to be as big as the hotelitself.”“It is,” Dewey said, with a sly expression on his face. “In fact, it’s exactly as big asthe hotel.”Violet and Klaus turned their gaze from Dewey to look at each other in confusion,but Sunny was gazing neither at the sub-sub-librarian nor at her siblings, but down atthe dark surface of the pond. “!ahA” she said, pointing a small, gloved finger at thecalm, still water.“Exactly,” Dewey said. “The truth has been right under everyone’s noses, ifanyone cared to look past the surface. Volunteers and villains alike know that the lastsafe place is the Hotel Denouement, but no one has ever questioned why the sign iswritten backward. They’re staying in the TNEMEUONED LETOH , while the reallast safe place-the catalog-is hidden safely at the bottom of the pond, in underwaterrooms organized in a mirror image of the hotel itself. Our enemies could burn theentire building to the ground, but the most important secrets would be safe.”“But if the location of the catalog is such an important secret,” Violet said, “whyare you telling us?”“Because you should know,” Dewey said. “You’ve wandered the world, observingmore villainy and gathering more evidence than most people do in a lifetime. I’msure the observations and evidence you’ve gathered in your commonplace book willbe valuable contributions to the catalog. Who better than you to keep the world’smost important secrets?” He looked out at the pond, and then at each orphan in turn.“After Thursday,” he continued, “you won’t have to be at sea anymore, Baudelaires.”The children knew that by the expression “at sea” he meant “lost and confused,” andhearing those words brought tears to their eyes. “I hope you decide to make this yourpermanent home. I need someone with an inventive imagination who can improve onthe aquatic design of the catalog. I need someone with the sort of research skills thatcan expand the catalog until it is the finest in the world. And, of course, we’ll need toeat, and I’ve heard wonderful things about Sunny’s cooking.”“Efcharisto,” Sunny said modestly.“Hal’s meals are atrocious, I’m afraid,” Dewey said with a rueful smile. “I don’tknow why he insisted on opening his restaurant in Room 954, when so many othersuitable rooms were available. Bad food of any style is unpleasant, but bad Indianfood is possibly the worst.”“Hal is a volunteer?” Klaus asked, remembering what Sunny had observed duringher errands as a concierge.“In a manner of speaking,” Dewey said, using an expression which here means“sort of.” “After the fire that destroyed Heimlich Hospital , my comrade arrived onthe scene to catalog any information that might have survived. She found Hal in avery distraught condition. His Library of Records was in shambles, and he hadnowhere to live. She offered him a position at the Hotel Denouement, where he mightaid us in our research and learn to cook. Unfortunately he’s only been good at one ofthose things.”“And what about Charles?” Violet asked, remembering what Klaus had observedduring his errands.“Charles has been searching for you since you left the lumbermill,” Dewey said.“He cares for you, Baudelaires, despite the selfish and dreadful behavior of hispartner. You’ve seen your share of wicked people, Baudelaires, but you’ve seen yourshare of people as noble as you are.”“I’m not sure we are noble,” Klaus said quietly, flipping the pages of hiscommonplace book. “We caused those accidents at the lumbermill. We’re responsiblefor the destruction of the hospital. We helped start the fire that destroyed MadameLulu’s archival library. We-”“Enough,” Dewey interrupted gently, putting a hand on Klaus’s shoulder. “You’renoble enough, Baudelaires. That’s all we can ask for in this world.”The middle Baudelaire hung his head, so he was leaning against the sub-sublibrarian, and his sisters huddled against him, and all four volunteers stood for amoment silently in the dark. Tears fell from the eyes of the orphans- all four of themand, as with many tears shed at night, they could not have said exactly why they werecrying, although I know why I am crying as I type this, and it is not because of theonions that someone is slicing in the next room, or because of the wretched curry heis planning on making with them. I am crying because Dewey Denouement waswrong. He was not wrong when he said the Baudelaires were noble enough, althoughI suppose many people might argue about such a thing, if they were sitting around aroom together without a deck of cards or something good to read. Dewey was wrongwhen he said that being noble enough is all we can ask for in this world, because wecan ask for much more than that. We can ask for a second helping of pound cake,even though someone has made it quite clear that we will not get any. We can ask fora new watercolor set, even though it will be pointed out that we never used the oldone, and that all of the paints dried into a crumbly mess. We can ask for Japanesefighting fish, to keep us company in our bedroom, and we can ask for a specialcamera that will allow us to take photographs even in the dark, for obvious reasons,and we can ask for an extra sugar cube in our coffees in the morning and an extrapillow in our beds at night. We can ask for justice, and we can ask for a handkerchief,and we can ask for cupcakes, and we can ask for all the soldiers in the world to laydown their weapons and join us in a rousing chorus of “Cry Me a River,” if thathappens to be our favorite song. But we can also ask for something we are muchmore likely to get, and that is to find a person or two, somewhere in our travels, whowill tell us that we are noble enough, whether it is true or not. We can ask forsomeone who will say, “You are noble enough,” and remind us of our good qualitieswhen we have forgotten them, or cast them into doubt. Most of us, of course, haveparents and friends who tell us such things, after we have lost a badmintontournament or failed to capture a notorious counterfeiter who we discovered aboard acertain motorboat. But the Baudelaire orphans, of course, had no living parents, andtheir closest friends were high in the sky, in a self-sustaining hot air mobile home,battling eagles and a terrible henchman who had hooks instead of hands, so theacquaintance of Dewey Denouement, and the comforting words he had uttered, werea blessing. The Baudelaires stood with the sub-sub-librarian, grateful for thisblessing, and at the sound of an approaching automobile, they looked to see two moreblessings arriving via taxi, and were grateful all over again.“Baudelaires!” called a familiar voice.“Baudelaires!” called another one.The siblings peered through the dark at the two figures emerging from the taxi,scarcely able to believe their eyes. These people were wearing strange eyeglasses made oftwo large cones that were attached to their heads with a mass of tangled rope, which wascoiled up on top of their heads. Such glasses might have concealed the identity of thepeople who were wearing them, but the Baudelaires had no trouble recognizing the peoplewho were hurrying toward them, even though they had not seen either person for a verylong time, and had thought they would never see them again.“Justice Strauss!” Violet cried.“Jerome Squalor!” Klaus cried.“J. S.!” Sunny cried.“I’m so happy to find you,” said the judge, taking off her Vision Furthering Deviceso she could dab at her eyes and embrace the children one by one. “I was afraid I’dnever see you again. I’ll never forgive myself for letting that idiotic banker take youaway from me.”“And I’ll never forgive myself,” said Jerome, who had the misfortune of beingmarried to Esmé Squalor, “for walking away from you children. I’m afraid I wasn’t avery good guardian.”“And I’m afraid I wasn’t a guardian at all,” Justice Strauss said. “As soon as youwere taken away in that automobile, I knew I had done the wrong thing, and when Iheard the dreadful news about Dr. Montgomery I began searching for you. EventuallyI found other people who were also trying to battle the wicked villains of this world,but I always hoped I would find you myself, if only to say how sorry I was.”“I’m sorry, too,” Jerome said. “As soon as I heard about all the troubles that befellyou in the Village of Fowl Devotees, I began my own Baudelaire search. Volunteerswere leaving me messages everywhere-at least, I thought the messages wereaddressed to me.”“And I thought they were addressed to me ,” Justice Strauss said. “There arecertainly plenty of people with the initials J. S.”“I began to feel like an impostor,” Jerome said.“You’re not impostors,” Dewey said. “You’re volunteers.” He turned to theBaudelaires. “Both these people have helped us immeasurably,” he said, using a wordwhich here means “a whole lot.” “Justice Strauss has reported the details of your caseto the other judges in the High Court. And Jerome Squalor has done some criticalresearch on injustice.”“I was inspired by my wife,” Jerome confessed, removing his Vision FurtheringDevice. “Wherever I looked for you, Baudelaires, I found selfish plots to steal yourfortune. I read books on injustice in all the libraries you left behind and eventuallywrote a book myself. Odious Lusting After Finance chronicles the history of greedyvillains, treacherous girlfriends, bungling bankers, and all the other peopleresponsible for injustice.”“No matter what we do, however,” Justice Strauss said, “we can’t erase the wrongswe did you, Baudelaires.”“She’s right,” Jerome Squalor said. “We should have been as noble as you are.”“You’re noble enough,” Violet said, and her siblings nodded in agreement, as thejudge and the injustice expert embraced them again. When someone has disappointedyou, as Justice Strauss and Jerome Squalor disappointed the Baudelaires, it is oftendifficult to decide whether to continue their acquaintance, even if the disappointershave done noble things in the meantime. There are some who say that you shouldforgive everyone, even the people who have disappointed you immeasurably. Thereare others who say you should not forgive anyone, and should stomp off in a huff nomatter how many times they apologize. Of these two philosophies, the second one isof course much more fun, but it can also grow exhausting to stomp off in a huff everytime someone has disappointed you, as everyone disappoints everyone eventually,and one can’t stomp off in a huff every minute of the day. When the Baudelairesthought about the harm that each J. S. had done to them, it was as if they had gotten abruise quite some time ago, one that had mostly faded but that still hurt when theytouched it, and when they touched this bruise it made them want to stomp off in ahuff. But on that evening-or, more properly, very early Wednesday morning-thesiblings did not want to stomp off into the hotel, where so many wicked people weregathered, or into the pond, which was likely to be very cold and clammy at this timeof night. They wanted to forgive these two adults, and to embrace them, despite theirdisappointment.“I don’t mean to break up all this embracing,” Dewey said, “but we have work todo, volunteers. As one of the first volunteers said a very long time ago, ‘Though boysthrow stones at frogs in sport, the frogs do not die in sport, but in earnest.’”“Speaking of frogs,” Justice Strauss said, “I’m afraid to report that we couldn’t seea thing from the other side of the pond. These Vision Furthering Devices work wellin the daytime, but looking through special sunglasses after sunset makes everythinglook as dark as a crow flying through a pitch black night-which is precisely whatwe’re looking for.”“Justice Strauss is correct,” Jerome said sadly. “We couldn’t verify the arrival ofthe crows, or whether their journey was interrupted.”“We couldn’t see if even a single crow was trapped,” the judge said, “or if thesugar bowl fell into the funnel.”“Funnel?” Dewey repeated.“Yes,” Justice Strauss said. “You told us that if our enemies shot down the crows,they would have fallen onto the birdpaper.”“And if the crows fell onto the birdpaper,” Jerome continued, “then the sugar bowlwould drop into the laundry room, right?”Dewey looked slyly at the steaming funnel, and then at the surface of the pond.“So it would appear,” he said. “Our enemies capturing the sugar bowl would be astroubling as their capture of the Medusoid Mycelium.”“So you already know about the plan to shoot down the crows, and capture thesugar bowl?” Violet said incredulously.“Yes,” Dewey said. “Justice Strauss learned that the harpoon gun had been takenup to the rooftop sunbathing salon. Jerome noticed that birdpaper was dangling out ofthe window of the sauna in Room 613. And I gave Sunny the lock myself, so shecould lock up the laundry in Room 025.”“You know about all the villainous people who are lurking in the hotel?” Klaussaid, equally incredulously.“Yes,” Justice Strauss said. “We observed rings on all the wooden furniture, frompeople refusing to use coasters. Obviously there are many villains staying in thehotel.”“Mycelium?” Sunny asked, with perhaps just a touch more incredulousness thanher siblings.“Yes,” Jerome said. “We’ve learned that Olaf has managed to acquire a few sporeslocked tight in a diving helmet.”The Baudelaires looked at the commonplace book in Klaus’s hands, and then backat the sub-sub-librarian. “I guess our observations and evidence aren’t such valuablecontributions after all,” Violet said. “All the mysteries we encountered in the hotelhad already been solved.”“It doesn’t matter, Baudelaires,” Jerome said. “Olaf won’t dare unleash theMedusoid Mycelium unless he gets his hands on the sugar bowl, and he’ll never findit.”“I’m the only one who knows which words will unlock the Vernacularly FastenedDoor,” Dewey said, ushering the children back toward the entrance of the hotel, “andthere’s not a villainous person on Earth who has done enough reading to guess thembefore Thursday. By then, all of the volunteers will present the research they’ve doneon Count Olaf and his associates to the prosecution, and all their treachery willfinally end.”“Jerome Squalor will be an important witness,” Justice Strauss said. “Hiscomprehensive history of injustice will help the High Court reach a verdict.”“Prosecution?” Violet asked.“Witness?” Klaus asked.“Verdict?” Sunny said.The three adults smiled at one another, and then at the Baudelaires. “That’s whatwe’ve been trying to tell you,” Dewey said gently. “V.F.D. has researched an entirecatalog of Olaf’s treachery. On Thursday, Justice Strauss and the other judges of theHigh Court will hear from each and every one of our volunteers. Count Olaf, EsméSqualor, and all of the other villainous people gathered here will finally be brought tojustice.”“You’ll never have to hide from Olaf again,” Jerome said, “or worry that anyonewill steal your fortune.”“We just have to wait for tomorrow, Baudelaires,” Justice Strauss said, “and yourtroubles will finally be over.”“It’s like my comrade always says,” Dewey said. “Right, temporarily defeated, isstronger than evil triumphant.”Wrong! The clanging of the clock announced that it was one in the morning, andwithout another word, Dewey took Violet’s hand, and Justice Strauss took Klaus’s,and Jerome Squalor leaned down and took Sunny’s hand, and the three adults led thethree orphans up the stairs toward the hotel’s entrance, walking past the taxi, whichstill sat there, engine purring, with the figure of the driver just a shadow in thewindow. The three adults smiled at the children, and the children smiled back, but ofcourse the Baudelaires were not born yesterday, an expression which means “youngor innocent enough to believe things certain people say about the world.” If theBaudelaires had been born yesterday, perhaps they would be innocent enough tobelieve that all of their troubles were truly about to end, and that Count Olaf and allof his treacherous associates would be judged by the High Court, and condemned tothe proper punishment for all their ignoble deeds, and that the children would spendthe rest of their days working with Dewey Denouement on his enormous underwatercatalog, if they only waited for tomorrow. But the three siblings were not bornyesterday. Violet was born more than fifteen years before this particular Wednesday,and Klaus was born approximately two years after that, and even Sunny, who had justpassed out of babyhood, was not born yesterday. Neither were you, unless of course Iam wrong, in which case welcome to the world, little baby, and congratulations onlearning to read so early in life. But if you were not born yesterday, and you haveread anything about the Baudelaire children’s lives, then you cannot be surprised thatthis happy moment was almost immediately cut short by the appearance of a mostunwelcome person at the moment the children were led through the fog of steamcoming from the laundry room funnel and through the entrance of the HotelDenouement as the one loud Wrong/ faded into nothing. This person was standing inthe center of the lobby, his tall lean body bent into a theatrical pose as if he werewaiting for a crowd to applaud, and you will not be surprised to know what wastattooed on his ankle, which the children could see poking out of a hole in his sockeven in the dim light of the room. You were not born yesterday, probably, so you willnot be surprised to find that this notorious villain had reappeared in the Baudelaires’lives for the penultimate time, and the Baudelaires were also not born yesterday, andso they also were not surprised. They were not born yesterday, but when Count Olafturned to face them, and gazed upon them with his shiny, shiny eyes, the Baudelaireorphans wished they had not been born at all.C H A P T E RNine‘Ha!“ Count Olaf shrieked, pointing at the Baudelaire orphans with a bony finger,and the children were thankful for small mercies. A small mercy is simply a tinything that has gone right in a world gone wrong, like a sprig of delicious parsley nextto a spoiled tuna sandwich, or a lovely dandelion in a garden that is being devouredby vicious goats. A small mercy, like a small flyswatter, is unlikely to be of any realhelp, but nevertheless the three siblings, even in their horror and disgust at seeingOlaf again, were thankful for the small mercy that the villain had apparently lostinterest in his new laugh. The last time the Baudelaires had seen the villain, he’d beenaboard a strange submarine shaped like an octopus, and he’d developed a laugh thatwas equally strange, full of snorts and squeaks and words that happened to begin withthe letter H. But as the villain strode toward the children and the adults who wereclutching their hands, it was clear he had since adopted a style of laughter that wassuccinct, a word which here means ”only the word ‘ha.’”“Ha!” he cried. “I knew I’d find you orphans again! Ha! And now you’re in myclutches! Ha!”“We’re not in your clutches,” Violet said. “We just happen to be standing in thesame room.”“That’s what you think, orphan,” Olaf sneered. “I’m afraid the man who’s holdingyour hand is one of my associates. Hand her over, Ernest. Ha!”“Ha yourself, Olaf,” said Dewey Denouement. His voice was firm and confident,but Violet felt his hand trembling in hers. “I’m not Ernest, and I’m not handing herover!”“Well, then hand her over, Frank!” Olaf said. “You might consider doing your hairdifferently so I can tell you apart.”“I’m not Frank, either,” Dewey said.“You can’t fool me!” Count Olaf growled. “I wasn’t born yesterday, you know!You’re one of those idiotic twins! I should know! Thanks to me, you two are the onlysurvivors of the entire family!”“Triplets run in my family,” Dewey said, “not twins. I’m Dewey Denouement.”At this, Count Olaf’s one eyebrow raised in astonishment. “Dewey Denouement,”he murmured. “So you’re a real person! I always thought you were a legendaryfigure, like unicorns or Giuseppe Verdi.”“Giuseppe Verdi is not a legendary figure,” Klaus said indignantly. “He’s anoperatic composer!”“Silence, bookworm!” Olaf ordered. “Children should not speak while adults arearguing! Hand over the orphans, adults!”“Nobody’s handing over the Baudelaires!” Justice Strauss said, clutching Klaus’shand. “You have no legal right to them or their fortune!”“You can’t just grab children as if they were pieces of fruit in a bowl!” JeromeSqualor cried. “It’s injustice, and we won’t have it!”“You’d better watch yourselves,” Count Olaf said, narrowing his shiny eyes. “Ihave associates lurking everywhere in this hotel.”“So do we,” Dewey said. “Many volunteers have arrived early, and within hoursthe streets will be flooded with taxis carrying noble people here to this hotel.”“How can you be sure they’re noble people?”Count Olaf asked. “A taxi will pickup anyone who signals for one.”“These people are associates of ours,” Dewey said fiercely. “They won’t fail us.”“Ha!” Count Olaf said. “You can’t rely on associates. More comrades have failedme than I can count. Why, Hooky and Fiona double-crossed me just yesterday, andlet you brats escape! Then they double-crossed me again and stole my submarine!”“We can rely on our friends,” Violet said quietly, “more than you can rely onyours.”“Is that so?” Count Olaf asked, and leaned toward the children with a ravenoussmile. “Have you learned nothing after all your adventures?” he asked. “Every nobleperson has failed you, Baudelaires. Why, look at the idiots standing next to you! Ajudge who let me marry you, a man who gave up on you altogether, and a sub-sublibrarian who spends his life sneaking around taking notes. They’re hardly a noblebunch.”“Charles is here, from Lucky Smells Lumbermill,” Klaus said. “He cares aboutus.”“Sir is here,” Olaf retorted. “He doesn’t. Ha!”“Hal,” Sunny said.“Vice Principal Nero and Mr. Remora,” Olaf replied, counting each nasty personon his filthy fingers. “And that pesky little reporter from The Daily Punctilio , who’shere to write silly articles praising my cocktail party. And ridiculous Mr. Poe, whoarrived just hours ago to investigate a bank robbery. Ha!”“Those people don’t count,” Klaus said. “They’re not associates of yours.”“They might as well be,” Count Olaf replied. “They’ve been an enormous help.And every second, more associates of mine get closer and closer.”“So do our friends,” Violet said. “They’re flying across the sea as we speak, andby tomorrow, their self-sustaining hot air mobile home will land on the roof.”“Only if they’ve managed to survive my eagles,” Count Olaf said with a growl.“They will,” Klaus said. “Just like we’ve survived you.”“And how did you survive me?” Olaf asked. “The Daily Punctilio is full of yourcrimes. You lied to people. You stole. You abandoned people in danger. You set fires.Time after time you’ve relied on treachery to survive, just like everyone else. Thereare no truly noble people in this world.”“Our parents,” Sunny said fiercely.Count Olaf looked surprised that Sunny had spoken, and then gave all threeBaudelaires a smile that made them shudder. “I guess the sub-sub-librarian hasn’ttold you the story about your parents,” he said, “and a box of poison darts. Why don’tyou ask him, orphans? Why don’t you ask this legendary librarian about that fatefulevening at the opera?”The Baudelaires turned to look at Dewey, who had begun to blush. But before theycould ask him anything, they were interrupted by a voice coming from a pair ofsliding doors that had quietly opened.“Don’t ask him that,” Esmé Squalor said. “I have a much more importantquestion.”With a mocking laugh, the treacherous girlfriend emerged from the elevator, hersilver sandals clumping on the floor and her lettuce leaves rustling against her skin.Behind her was Carmelita Spats, who was still wearing her ballplaying cowboysuperhero soldier pirate outfit and carrying the harpoon gun Violet had delivered, andbehind her three more people emerged from the elevator. First came the attendantfrom the rooftop sunbathing salon, still wearing green sunglasses and a long, baggyrobe. Following the attendant was the mysterious chemist from outside the sauna,dressed in a long, white coat and a surgical mask, and last out of the elevator was thewasherwoman from the laundry room, with long, blond hair and rumpled clothing.The Baudelaires recognized these people from their observations as flaneurs, but thenthe attendant removed his robe to reveal his back, which had a small hump on theshoulder, and the chemist removed her surgical mask, not with one of her hands butwith one of her feet, and the washerwoman removed a long, blond wig with bothhands at the exact same time, and the three siblings recognized the three henchfolk allover again.“Hugo!” cried Violet.“Colette!” cried Klaus.“Kevin!” cried Sunny.“Esmé!” cried Jerome.“Why isn’t anybody calling out my name?” demanded Carmelita, stomping one ofher bright blue boots. She pranced toward Violet, who observed that two of the fourlong, sharp hooks were missing from the weapon. This sort of observation may beimportant for a flaneur, but it is dreadful for any reader of this book, who probablydoes not want to know where the remaining harpoons will end up. “I’m a ballplayingcowboy superhero soldier pirate,” she crowed to the oldest Baudelaire, “and you’renothing but a cakesniffer. Call my name or I’ll shoot you with this harpoon gun!”“Carmelita!” Esmé said, her silver mouth twisting into an expression of shock.“Don’t point that gun at Violet!”“Esmé‘s right,” Count Olaf said. “Don’t waste the harpoons. We may need them.”“Yes!” Esmé cried. “There’s always important work to do before a cocktail party,particularly if you want it to be the innest in the world! We need to put slipcovers onthe couches, and hide our associates beneath them! We need to put vases of flowerson the piano and electric eels in the fountain! We need to hang streamers andvolunteers from the ceiling! We need to play music, so people can dance, and blockthe exits, so they can’t leave! And most of all, we have to cook in food and prepare incocktails! Food and drink are the most important aspect of every social occasion, andour in recipes-”“The most important aspect of every social occasion isn’t food and drink!” Deweyinterrupted indignantly. “It’s conversation!”“You’re the one who should flee!” Justice Strauss said. “Your cocktail party willbe canceled, due to the host and hostess being brought to justice by the High Court!”“You’re as foolish as you were when we were neighbors,” Count Olaf said. “TheHigh Court can’t stop us. V.F.D. can’t stop us. Hidden somewhere in this hotel is oneof the most deadly fungi in the entire world. When Thursday comes, the fungus willcome out of hiding and destroy everyone it touches! At last I’ll be free to steal theBaudelaire fortune and perform any other act of treachery that springs to mind!”“You won’t dare unleash the Medusoid Mycelium,” Dewey said. “Not while I havethe sugar bowl.”“Funny you should mention the sugar bowl,” Esmé Squalor said, although theBaudelaires could see she didn’t think it was funny at all. “That’s just what we wantto ask you about.”“The sugar bowl?” Count Olaf asked, his eyes shining bright. “Where is it?”“The freaks will tell you,” Esmé said.“It’s true, boss,” said Hugo. “I may be a mere hunchback, but I saw Carmelitashoot down the crows using the harpoon gun Violet brought her.”Justice Strauss turned to Violet in astonishment. “You gave Carmelita the harpoongun?” she gasped.“Well, yes,” Violet said. “I had to perform concierge errands as part of mydisguise.”“The harpoon gun was supposed to be kept away from villains,” the judge said,“not given to them. Why didn’t Frank stop you?”Violet thought back to her unfathomable conversation with Frank. “I think hetried,” she said quietly, “but I had to take the harpoon gun up to the roof. What elsecould I do?”“I hit two crows!” bragged Carmelita Spats. “That means Countie has to teach mehow to spit like a real ballplaying cowboy superhero soldier pirate!”“Don’t worry, darling,” Esmé said. “He’ll teach you. Won’t you, Olaf?”Count Olaf sighed, as if he had better things to do than teach a little girl how topropel saliva out of her mouth. “Yes, Carmelita,” he said, “I’ll teach you how to spit.”Colette took center stage, a phrase which here means “stepped forward, andtwisted her body into an unusual shape.” “Even a contortionist like me,” she said, hermouth moving beneath her elbow, “could see what happened after Carmelita shot thecrows. They fell right onto the birdpaper that Klaus dangled out the window.”“You dangled the birdpaper out the window?” Jerome asked the middleBaudelaire.“Ernest told me to,” Klaus said, finally realizing which manager had spoken tohim in the sauna. “I had to obey him as part of my disguise.”“You can’t just do what everyone tells you to do,” Jerome said.“What else could I do?” Klaus said.“When the crows hit the birdpaper,” Kevin said, gesturing with one hand and thenthe other, “they dropped the sugar bowl. I didn’t see where it went with either myright eye or my left one, which I’m sad to say are equally strong. But I did see Sunnyturn the door of the laundry room into a Vernacularly Fastened Door.”“Aha!” Count Olaf cried. “The sugar bowl must have fallen down the funnel!”“I still don’t see why I had to disguise myself as a washerwoman,” Kevin saidtimidly. “I could have just been a washer person, and not worn this humiliating wig.”“Or you could have been a noble person,” Violet could not help adding, “instead ofspying on a brave volunteer.”“What else could I do?” Kevin asked, shrugging both shoulders equally high.“You could be a volunteer yourself,” Klaus said, looking at all of his formercarnival coworkers. “All of you could stand with us now, instead of helping CountOlaf with his schemes.”“I could never be a noble person,” Hugo said sadly. “I have a hump on my back.”“And I’m a contortionist,” Colette said. “Someone who can bend their body intounusual shapes could never be a volunteer.”“V.F.D. would never accept an ambidextrous person,” Kevin said. “It’s my destinyto be a treacherous person.”“Galimatias!” Sunny cried.“Nonsense!” Dewey said, who understood at once what Sunny had said. “I’mambidextrous myself, and I’ve managed to do something worthwhile with my life.Being treacherous isn’t your destiny! It’s your choice!”“I’m glad you feel that way,” Esmé Squalor said. “You have a choice this verymoment, Frank. Tell me where the sugar bowl is, or else!”“That’s not a choice,” Dewey said, “and I’m not Frank.”Esmé frowned. “Then you have a choice this very moment, Ernest. Tell me wherethe sugar bowl is, or-”“Dewey,” Sunny said.Esmé blinked at the youngest Baudelaire, who noticed that the villainous woman’seyelashes had also been painted silver. “What?” she asked.“It’s true,” Olaf said. “He’s the real sub-sub. It turns out he’s not legendary, likeVerdi.”“Is that so?” Esmé Squalor said. “So someone has really been catalogingeverything that has happened between us?”“It’s been my life’s work,” Dewey said. “Eventually, every crucial secret ends upin my catalog.”“Then you know all about the sugar bowl,” Esmé said, “and what’s inside. Youknow how important that thing was, and how many lives were lost in the quest to findit. You know how difficult it was to find a container that could hold it safely,securely, and attractively. You know what it means to the Baudelaires and what itmeans to the Snickets.” She took one sandaled step closer to Dewey, and stretchedout one silver fingernail-the one shaped like an S-until it was almost poking him inthe eye. “And you know,” she said in a terrible voice, “that it is mine. ”“Not anymore,” Dewey said.“Beatrice stole it from me! ” Esmé cried.“There are worse things,” Dewey said, “than theft.”At this, the girlfriend gave the sub-sublibrarian a chuckle that made theBaudelaires’ blood run cold. “There certainly are,” she said, and strode towardCarmelita Spats. With one spiky fingernail-the one shaped like an M- she moved theharpoon gun so it was pointing at the triplet. “Tell me how to open that door,” shesaid, “or this little girl will harpoon you.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate Peril“I’m not a little girl!” Carmelita reminded Esmé nastily. “I’m a ballplayingcowboy superhero soldier pirate! And I’m not going to shoot any more harpoons untilCountie teaches me how to spit.”“You’ll do what we say, Carmelita,” Olaf growled. “I already purchased thatridiculous outfit for you, and that boat for you to prowl the swimming pool. Point thatweapon at Dewey this instant!”“Teach me to spit!” Carmelita said.“Point the weapon!”“Teach me to spit!”“Point the weapon!”“Teach me to spit!”“Weapon!”“Spit!”“Weapon!”“Spit!”With a raspy roar, Count Olaf roughly yanked the harpoon gun out of Carmelita’shands, knocking her to the floor. “I’ll never teach you how to spit as long as I live!”he shouted. “Ha!”“Darling!” Esmé gasped. “You can’t break your promise to our darling little girl!”“I’m not a darling little girl!” Carmelita screamed. “I’m a ballplaying cowboysuperhero soldier pirate!”“You’re a spoiled baby!” Olaf corrected. “I never wanted a brat like you aroundanyway! It’s about time you were shown some discipline!”“But discipline is out!” Esmé said.“I don’t care what’s out and what’s in!” Count Olaf cried. “I’m tired of having agirlfriend obsessed with fashion! All you do is sit around rooftop sunbathing salonswhile I run around doing all the work!”“If I hadn’t been on the roof,” Esmé retorted, “the sugar bowl would have beendelivered to V.F.D.! Besides, I was guarding-”“Never mind what you were doing,” Olaf said. “You’re fired!”“You can’t fire me!” Esmé growled. “I quit!”“Well, you can leave by mutual agreement,” Olaf grumbled, and then, with anothersuccinct“Ha!” he lifted the harpoon gun and pointed it at Dewey Denouement. “Tell us thethree phrases we need to type into the lock in order to open the Vernacularly FastenedDoor and search the laundry room!”“You won’t find anything in the laundry room,” Dewey said, “except piles of dirtysheets, a few washing and drying machines, and some extremely flammablechemicals.”“I may have a handsome, youthful glow,” Olaf snarled, “but I wasn’t bornyesterday! Ha! If there’s nothing in the laundry room, why did you put a V.F.D. lockon the door?”“Perhaps it’s just a decoy,” Dewey said, his hand still trembling in Violet’s.“Decoy?” Olaf said.“‘Decoy’ is a word with several meanings,” the triplet explained. “It can refer to acorner of a pond where ducks can be captured, or to an imitation of a duck or otheranimal used to attract a real specimen. Or, it can mean something used to distractpeople, such as a lock on a door that does not contain a certain sugar bowl.”“If the lock is a decoy, sub-sub,” Count Olaf sneered, “then you won’t mind tellingme how to open it.”“Very well,” Dewey said, still struggling to sound calm. “The first phrase is adescription of a medical condition that all three Baudelaire children share.”The Baudelaires shared a smile.“The second phrase is the weapon that left you an orphan, Olaf,” Dewey said.The Baudelaires shared a frown.“And the third,” Dewey said, “is the famous unfathomable question in the bestknown novel by Richard Wright.”The Baudelaire sisters shared a look of confusion, and then looked hopefully atKlaus, who slowly shook his head.“I don’t have time to medically examine the Baudelaires,” Olaf said, “or shove myface into any best-known novels!”“Wicked people never have time for reading,” Dewey said. “It’s one of the reasonsfor their wickedness.”“I’ve had enough of your games!” Count Olaf roared. “Ha! If I don’t hear theexact phrases used to open the lock by the time Esmé counts to ten, I’ll fire theharpoon gun and tear you to shreds! Esmé, count to ten!”“I’m not counting to ten,” Esmé pouted. “I’m not going to do anything for youever again!”“I knew it!” Jerome said. “I knew you could be a noble person again, Esmé! Youdon’t have to parade around in an indecent bikini in the middle of the nightthreatening sub-sub-librarians! You can stand with us, in the name of justice.”“Let’s not go overboard,” Esmé said. “Just because I’m dumping my boyfrienddoesn’t mean I’m going to be a goody-goody like you. Justice is out. Injustice is in.That’s why it’s called injustice.”“You should do what’s right in this world,” Justice Strauss said, “not just what’sfashionable. I understand your situation, Esmé. When I was your age, I spent years asa horse thief before realizing-”“I don’t want to hear your boring stories,” Count Olaf snarled. “The only thing Iwant to hear are three exact phrases from Dewey’s mouth, or his destiny will be deathby harpoon, as soon as I say the number ten. One !”“Stop!” Justice Strauss cried. “In the name of the law!”“Two!”“Stop!” Jerome Squalor pleaded. “In the name of injustice!”“Three!”“Stop!” Violet ordered, and her siblings nodded in fierce agreement. TheBaudelaires realized, as I’m sure you have realized, that the adults standing withthem were going to do nothing that would stop Count Olaf from reaching ten andpulling the trigger of the harpoon gun, and that Justice Strauss and Jerome Squalorwould fail them, as so many noble people had failed them before. But the siblingsalso knew that this failure would not hurt them-at least, not right away. It would hurtDewey Denouement, and without another word the three children dropped the handsof the adults and stood in front of the sub-sub-librarian, shielding him from harm.“You can’t harpoon this man,” Klaus said to Count Olaf, scarcely believing whathe was saying. “You’ll have to harpoon us first.”“Or,” Sunny said, “put down gun.”Dewey Denoument looked too amazed to speak, but Count Olaf merely turned hisdisdainful gaze from the sub-sub-librarian to the three children. “I wouldn’t mindharpooning you either, orphans,” he said, his eyes shining bright. “When it comes toslaughtering people, I’m very flexible! Ha! Four! ‘”Violet took a step toward the count, who was holding the harpoon gun so it pointedat her chest. “Lay down your weapon, Olaf,” the eldest Baudelaire said. “You don’twant to do this wicked thing.”Count Olaf blinked, but did not move the gun. “Of course I do,” he said. “If thesub-sub doesn’t tell me how to get the sugar bowl, I’ll pull the trigger no matterwho’s standing in front of me! Ha! Five!”Klaus took a step forward, joining his sister. “You have a choice,” he said. “Youcan choose not to pull that trigger!”“And you can choose death by harpoon!” Count Olaf cried. “Six!”“Please,” Sunny said, joining her sisters. The villain did not move, but standingtogether, the three Baudelaires walked closer and closer to the harpoon gun, shieldingDewey all the while.“Seven!”“Please,” the youngest Baudelaire said again. The Baudelaires walked slowly butsteadily toward the harpoon gun, their echoing footsteps the only sound in the silentlobby except for Olaf’s shrieking of higher and higher numbers.“Eight!”They walked closer.“Nine”The children took one last step, and silently put their hands on the harpoon gun,which felt ice cold, even through their white gloves. They tried to pull the weaponout of Olaf’s hands, but their first guardian did not let go, and for a long moment theyoungsters and the adult were gathered around the terrible weapon in silence. Violetstared at the hooked tip of one harpoon that was pressed against her chest. Klausstared straight ahead at the bright red trigger that could press at any moment, andSunny stared into Olaf’s shiny, shiny eyes for even the smallest sign of nobility.“What else can I do?” the villain asked, so quietly the children could not be surethey had heard him correctly.“Give us the gun,” Violet said. “It’s not your destiny to do this treacherous deed.”“Give us the gun,” Klaus said. “It’s not your destiny to be a wicked person.”“La Forza del Destino ,” Sunny said, and then nobody said anything more. It wasso quiet in the lobby that the Baudelaires could hear Olaf draw breath as he got readyto shout the word “ten.”But then, in an instant, they heard another sound, specifically a very loud cough,and in an instant everything changed, which is the wicked way of the world. In aninstant, you can light a match and start a fire that can destroy the lives of countlesspeople. In an instant, you can remove a cake from the oven and provide dessert forcountless others, assuming that the cake is very large, and the others are not veryhungry. In an instant, you can change a few words in a poem by Robert Frost andcommunicate with your associates through a code known as Verse FluctuationDeclaration, and in an instant, you can realize where something is hidden and decidewhether you are going to retrieve it or let it stay hidden, where it might never befound and eventually be forgotten by all but a few very well-read and very distraughtfigures, who are themselves forgotten by all but a few very well-read and verydistraught figures, who in turn are forgotten, and so on, and so on, and so on, and afew more so ons besides. All this can happen in an instant, as if a single instant is anenormous container, capable of holding countless secrets safely, securely, andattractively, such as the countless secrets held in the Hotel Denouement, or in thehidden underwater catalog in its rippling reflection. But in this instant, in the hotel’senormous lobby, the Baudelaire orphans heard a cough, as loud as it was familiar, andin this instant Count Olaf turned to see who was walking into the lobby, and hurriedlypushed the harpoon gun into the Baudelaires’ hands when he saw a figure wearingpajamas with drawings of money all over them and a bewildered expression on hisface. In this instant, the three siblings grasped the weapon, feeling its heavy, darkweight in their hands, and in this instant the gun slipped from their hands andclattered to the green wooden floor, and in this instant they heard the red triggerclick! , and in this instant the penultimate harpoon was fired with a swoosh! andsailed through the enormous, domed room and struck someone a fatal blow, a phrasewhich here means “killed one of the people in the room.”“What’s going on?” Mr. Poe demanded, for it was not his destiny to be slain by aharpoon, at least not on this particular evening. “I could hear people arguing all theway from Room 174. What in the world-” and in that instant he stopped, and gazed inhorror at the three siblings. “Baudelaires!” he gasped, but he was not the only persongasping. Violet gasped, and Klaus gasped, and Sunny gasped, and Justice Strauss andJerome Squalor gasped, and Hugo, Colette, and Kevin-who were accustomed toviolence from their days as carnival employees and as henchmen to a villain-gasped,and Carmelita Spats gasped, and Esmé Squalor gasped, and even Count Olaf gasped,although it is unusual for a villain to gasp unless he is discovering a crucial secret, orsuffering very great pain. But it was Dewey Denouement who gasped loudest of all,louder even than the Wrong!s that thundered through the hotel as the clock strucktwo. Wrong! Wrong ! the clock thundered, but all the Baudelaires heard was Dewey’spained, choking gasp, as he stumbled backward through the lobby, one hand on hischest, and the other clutching the tail end of the harpoon, which stuck out from hisbody at an odd angle, like a drinking straw, or a reflection of one of Dewey’s skinnyarms.“Dewey!” Violet cried.“Dewey!” Klaus cried.“Denouement!” Sunny cried, but the sub- sub- librarian did not answer, andstumbled backward out of the hotel in silence. For a moment, the children were tooshocked to move as they watched him disappear into the cloud of steam rising from thelaundry room funnel, but then they ran after him, hurrying down the stairs as they heard asplash! from the edge of the pond. By the time the Baudelaires reached him, he wasalready beginning to sink, his trembling body making ripples in the water. There are thosewho say that the world is like a calm pond, and that anytime a person does even thesmallest thing, it is as if a stone has dropped into the pond, spreading circles of ripplesfurther and further out, until the entire world has been changed by one tiny action, but theBaudelaires could not bear to think of the tiny action of the trigger of the harpoon gun, orhow the world had changed in just one instant. Instead, they frantically rushed to the edgeof the pond as the sub-sub-librarian began to sink. Klaus grabbed one hand, and Sunnygrabbed the other, and Violet reached for his face, as if she were comforting someone whohad begun to cry.“You’ll be O.K.,” Violet cried. “Let us get you out of the water.”Dewey shook his head, and then gave the children a terrible frown, as if he weretrying to speak but unable to find the words.“You’ll survive,” Klaus said, although he knew, both from reading about dreadfulevents and from dreadful events in his own life, that this simply was not true.Dewey shook his head again. By now, only his head was above the surface of thewater, and his two trembling hands. The children could not see his body, or the harpoon,which was a small mercy.“We failed you,” Sunny said.Dewey shook his head one more time, this time very wildly in violentdisagreement. He opened his mouth, and reached one hand out of the water, pointingpast the Baudelaires toward the dark, dark sky as he struggled to utter the word hemost wanted to say. “Kit,” he whispered finally, and then, slipping from the grasp ofthe children, he disappeared into the dark water, and the Baudelaire orphans weptalone for the mercies denied them, and for the wicked, wicked way of the world.C H A P T E RTen“What was that?” a voice called out.“It sounded like a harpoon gun being fired!” cried another voice.“A harpoon gun?” asked a third voice. “This is supposed to be a hotel, not ashooting gallery!”“I heard a splash!” cried someone.“Me too!” agreed someone else. “It sounded like somebody fell into the pond!”The Baudelaire orphans gazed at the settling surface of the pond and saw thereflections of shutters and windows opening on every story of the Hotel Denouement.Lights went on, and the silhouettes of people appeared, leaning out of the windowsand pointing down at the weeping children, who were too upset to pay much attentionto all the shouting.“What’s all this shouting about?” asked another voice. “I was fast asleep!”“It’s the middle of the night!” complained someone else. “Why is everybodyyelling?”“I’ll tell you why there’s yelling!” yelled someone. “Someone was shot with aharpoon gun and then fell into the pond!”“Come back to bed, Bruce,” said someone else.“I can’t sleep if there’s murderers on the loose!” cried another guest.“Amen, brother!” said another person. “If a crime has been committed, then it’sour duty to stand around in our pajamas in the name of justice!”“I can’t sleep anyway!” said somebody. “That lousy Indian food has kept me up allnight!”“Somebody tell me what’s going on!” called a voice. “The readers of The DailyPunctilio will want to know what’s happened.”The sound of the voice of Geraldine Julienne, and the mention of her inaccuratepublication, forced the children to stop crying, if only for a moment. They knew itwould be wise to postpone their grief-a phrase which here means “mourn the death ofDewey Denouement at a later time”-and make sure that the newspaper printed thetruth.“There’s been an accident,” Violet called, not turning her eyes from the surface ofthe pond. “A terrible accident.”“One of the hotel managers has died,” Klaus said.“Which one?” asked a voice from a high window. “Frank or Ernest?”“Dewey,” Sunny said.“There’s no Dewey,” said another voice. “That’s a legendary figure.”“He’s not a legendary figure!” Violet said indignantly. “He’s a sub-”Klaus put his hand on his sister’s, and the eldest Baudelaire stopped talking.“Dewey’s catalog is a secret,” he whispered. “We can’t have it announced in TheDaily Punctilio .”“But truth,” Sunny murmured.“Klaus is right,” Violet said. “Dewey asked us to keep his secret, and we can’t failhim.” She looked sadly out at the pond, and wiped the tears from her eyes. “It’s theleast we can do,” she said.“I didn’t realize this was a sad occasion,” said another hotel guest. “We shouldobserve everything carefully, and intrude only if absolutely necessary.”“I disagree!” said someone in a raspy shout. “We should intrude right now, andobserve only if absolutely necessary!”“We should call the authorities!” said someone else.“We should call the manager!” “We should call the concierge!” “We should callmy mother!” “We should look for clues!” “We should look for weapons!” “Weshould look for my mother!” “We should look for suspicious people!”“Suspicious people?” repeated another voice. “But this is supposed to be a nicehotel!”“Nice hotels are crawling with suspicious people,” someone else remarked. “I sawa washerwoman who was wearing a suspicious wig!”“I saw a concierge carrying a suspicious item!”“I saw a taxi carrying a suspicious passenger!”“I saw a cook preparing suspicious food!”“I saw an attendant holding a suspicious spatula!”“I saw a man with a suspicious cloud of smoke!”“I saw a baby with a suspicious lock!”“I saw a manager wearing a suspicious uniform!”“I saw a woman wearing suspicious lettuce!”“I saw my mother!”“I can’t see anything!” someone yelled. “It’s as dark as a crow flying through apitch black night!”“I see something right now!” cried a voice. “There are three suspicious peoplestanding at the edge of the pond!”“They’re the people who were talking to the reporter!” cried somebody else.“They’re refusing to show their faces!”“They must be murderers!” cried yet another person. “Nobody else would act assuspiciously as that!”“We’d better hurry downstairs,” said one more guest, “before they escape!”“Wow!” squealed another voice. “Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilioread the headline: ‘VICIOUS MURDER AT HOTEL DENOUEMENT!’ That’s muchmore exciting than an accident!”“Mob psychology,” Sunny said, remembering a term Klaus had taught her shortlybefore she took her first steps.“Sunny’s right,” said Klaus, wiping his eyes. “This crowd is getting angrier andangrier. In a moment, they’ll all believe we’re murderers.”“Maybe we are,” Violet said quietly.“Poppycock!” Sunny said firmly, which meant something like, “Nonsense.”“Accident!”“It was an accident,” Klaus said, “but it was our fault.”“Partially,” Sunny said.“It’s not for us to decide,” Violet said. “We should go inside and talk to JusticeStrauss and the others. They’ll know what to do.”“Maybe,” Klaus said. “Or maybe we should run.”“Run?” Sunny asked.“We can’t run,” Violet said. “If we run, everyone will think we’re murderers.”“Maybe we are,” Klaus pointed out. “All the noble people in that lobby have failedus. We can’t be sure they’ll help us now.”Violet heaved a great sigh, her breath still shaky from her tears. “Where would wego?” she whispered.“Anywhere,” Klaus said simply. “We could go somewhere where no one has everheard of Count Olaf, or V.F.D. There must be other noble people in the world, and wecould find them.”“There are other noble people,” Violet said. “They’re on their way here. Deweytold us to wait until tomorrow. I think we should stay.”“Tomorrow might be too late,” Klaus said. “I think we should run.”“Torn,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “I see theadvantages and disadvantages of both plans of action,” but before her siblings couldanswer, the children felt a shadow over them, and looked up to see a tall, skinnyfigure standing over them. In the darkness the children could not see any of hisfeatures, only the glowing tip of a skinny cigarette in his mouth.“Do you three need a taxi?” he asked, and gestured to the automobile that hadbrought Justice Strauss and Jerome Squalor to the entrance of the hotel.The siblings looked at one another, and then squinted up at the man. The childrenthought perhaps his voice was familiar, but it might just have been his unfathomabletone, which they’d heard so many times since their arrival at the hotel that it madeeverything seem familiar and mysterious at the same time.“We’re not sure,” Violet said, after a moment.“You’re not sure?” the man asked. “Whenever you see someone in a taxi, they areprobably being driven to do some errand. Surely there must be something you need todo, or somewhere you need to go. A great American novelist wrote that people travelfaster now, but she wasn’t sure if they do better things. Maybe you would do betterthings if you traveled at this very moment.”“We haven’t any money,” Klaus said.“You needn’t worry about money,” the man said, “not if you’re who I think youare.” He leaned in toward the Baudelaires. “Are you?” he asked. “Are you who Ithink you are?”The children looked at each other again. They had no way of knowing, of course,if this man was a volunteer or an enemy, a noble man or a treacherous person. Ingeneral, of course, a stranger who tries to get you into an automobile is anything butnoble, and in general a person who quotes great American novelists is anything buttreacherous, and in general a man who says you needn’t worry about money, or aman who smokes cigarettes, is somewhere in between. But the Baudelaire orphanswere not standing in general. They were standing outside the Hotel Denouement, atthe edge of a pond where a great secret was hidden, while a crowd of guests grewmore and more suspicious about the terrible thing that had just occurred. The childrenthought of Dewey, and remembered the terrible, terrible sight of him sinking into thepond, and they realized they had no way of knowing if they themselves were good orevil, let alone the mysterious man towering over them.“We don’t know,” Sunny said finally.“Baudelaires!” came a sharp voice at the top of the stairs, followed by a fit ofcoughing, and the siblings turned to see Mr. Poe, who was staring at the children andcovering his mouth with a white handkerchief. “What has happened?” he asked.“Where is that man you shot with the harpoon?”The Baudelaires were too weary and unhappy to argue with Mr. Poe’s descriptionof what happened. “He’s dead,” Violet said, and found that tears were in her eyesonce more.Mr. Poe coughed once more in astonishment, and then stepped down the stairs andstood in front of the children whose welfare had been his responsibility. “Dead!” hesaid. “How did that happen?”“It’s difficult to say,” Klaus said.“Difficult to say?” Mr. Poe frowned. “But I saw you, Baudelaires. You wereholding the weapon. Surely you can tell me what happened.”“Henribergson,” Sunny said, which meant “It’s more complicated than that,” butMr. Poe only shook his head as if he’d heard enough.“You’d better come inside,” he said, with a weary sigh. “I must say I’m verydisappointed in you children. When I was in charge of your affairs, no matter howmany homes I found for you, terrible things occurred. Then, when you decided tohandle your own affairs, The Daily Punctilio brought more and more news of yourtreachery with each passing day. And now that I’ve found you again, I see that oncemore an unfortunate event has occurred, and another guardian is dead. You should beashamed of yourselves.”The Baudelaires did not answer. Dewey Denouement, of course, had not been theirofficial guardian at the Hotel Denouement, but he had looked after them, even whenthey did not know it, and he had done his best to protect them from the villainouspeople lurking around their home. Even though he wasn’t a proper guardian, he was agood guardian, and the children were ashamed of themselves for their participation inhis unfortunate death. In silence, they waited while Mr. Poe had another fit ofcoughing, and then the banker put his hands on the Baudelaires’ shoulders, pushingthem toward the entrance to the hotel. “There are people who say that criminalbehavior is the destiny of children from a broken home,” he said. “Perhaps suchpeople are right.”“This isn’t our destiny,” Klaus said, but he did not sound very sure, and Mr. Poemerely gave him a sad, stern look, and kept pushing. If someone taller than you hasever reached down to push you by the shoulder, then you know this is not a pleasantway to travel, but the Baudelaires were too upset and confused to care. Up the stairsthey went, the banker plodding behind them in his ugly pajamas, and only when theyreached the cloud of steam that still wafted across the entrance did they think to lookback at the mysterious man who had offered them a ride. By then the man wasalready back inside the taxi and was driving slowly away from the HotelDenouement, and just as the children had no way of knowing if he was a good personor not, they had no way of knowing if they were sad or relieved to see him go, andeven after months of research, and many sleepless nights, and many drearyafternoons spent in front of an enormous pond, throwing stones in the hopes thatsomeone would notice the ripples I was making, I have no way of knowing if theBaudelaires should have been sad or relieved to see him go either. I do know who theman was, and I do know where he went afterward, and I do know the name of thewoman who was hiding in the trunk, and the type of musical instrument that was laidcarefully in the back seat, and the ingredients of the sandwich tucked into the glovecompartment, and even the small item that sat on the passenger seat, still damp fromits hiding place, but I cannot tell you if the Baudelaires would have been happier inthis man’s company, or if it was better that he drove away from the three siblings,looking back at them through the rearview mirror and clutching a monogrammednapkin in his trembling hand. I do know that if they had gotten into his taxi, theirtroubles at the Hotel Denouement would not have been their penultimate peril, andthey would have had quite a few more woeful events in their lives that would likelytake thirteen more books to describe, but I have no way of knowing if it would havebeen better for the orphans, any more than I know if it would have been better for mehad I decided to continue my life’s work rather than researching the Baudelaires’story, or if it would have been better for my sister had she decided to join the childrenat the Hotel Denouement instead of waterskiing toward Captain Widdershins, and,later, waterskiing away from him, or if it would have been better for you to step intothat taxicab you saw not so long ago and embark on your own series of events, ratherthan continuing with the life you have for yourself. There is no way of knowing.When there is no way of knowing, one can only imagine, and I imagine that theBaudelaire orphans were quite frightened indeed when they walked through theentrance to the hotel and saw the crowd of people waiting for them in the lobby.“There they are!” roared someone from the back of the room. The children couldnot see who it was, because the lobby was as crowded as it had been when they firstset foot in the perplexing hotel. It had been strange to walk through the enormous,domed room that morning, passing unnoticed in their concierge disguises, but thistime every person in the lobby was looking directly at them. The children wereamazed to see countless familiar faces from every chapter of their lives, and sawmany, many people they could not be sure if they recognized or not. Everyone waswearing pajamas, nightgowns, or other sleepwear, and was glaring at the Baudelairesthrough eyes squinty from being awakened in the middle of the night. It is alwaysinteresting to observe what people are wearing in the middle of the night, althoughthere are more pleasant ways to make such observations without being accused ofmurder. “Those are the murderers!”“They’re no ordinary murderers!” cried Geraldine Julienne, who was wearing abright yellow nightshirt and had a shower cap over her hair. “They’re the Baudelaireorphans!”A ripple of astonishment went through the pajamaed crowd, and the childrenwished they had thought to put their sunglasses back on. “The Baudelaire orphans?”cried Sir, whose pajamas had the initials L. S. stenciled over the pocket, presumablyfor “Lucky Smells.” “I remember them! They caused accidents in my lumbermill!”“The accidents weren’t their fault!” Charles said, whose pajamas matched hispartner’s. “They were the fault of Count Olaf!”“Count Olaf is another one of their victims!” cried a woman dressed in a brightpink bathrobe. The Baudelaires recognized her as Mrs. Morrow, one of the citizens ofthe Village of Fowl Devotees. “He was murdered right in my hometown!”“That was Count Omar,” said another citizen of the town, a man named Mr. Leskowho apparently slept in the same plaid pants he wore during the day.“I’m sure the Baudelaires aren’t murderers,” said Jerome Squalor. “I was theirguardian, and I always found them to be polite and kind.”“They were pretty good students, if I remember correctly,” said Mr. Remora, whowas wearing a nightcap shaped like a banana.“They were pretty good students, if I remember correctly,” Vice Principal Neromimicked. “They were nothing of the sort. Violet and Klaus flunked all sorts of tests,and Sunny was the worst administrative assistant I’ve ever seen!”“I say they’re criminals,” Mrs. Bass said, adjusting her wig, “and criminals oughtto be punished.”“Yes!” said Hugo. “Criminals are too freakish to be running around loose!”“They’re not criminals,” Hal said firmly, “and I should know.”“So should I,” retorted Esmé Squalor, “and I say they’re guilty as sin.” Her long,silver fingernails rested on the shoulder of Carmelita Spats, who was glaring at thesiblings as Mr. Poe pushed them past.“I think they’re guiltier than that!” said one of the hotel bellboys.“I think they’re even guiltier than you think they are!” cried another.“I think they look like nice kids!” said someone the children did not recognize.“I think they look like vicious criminals!” said another person.“I think they look like noble volunteers!” said another.“I think they look like treacherous villains!”“I think they look like concierges!”“One of them looks a bit like my mother!”Wrong! Wrong! Wrong ! The lobby seemed to shake as the clock struck three inthe morning. By now, Mr. Poe had escorted the Baudelaires to a far corner of thelobby, where either Frank or Ernest was waiting next to the door marked 121 with agrim expression on his face as the last Wrong! echoed in the enormous room.“Ladies and gentlemen!” The children turned to see Justice Strauss, who wasstanding on one of the wooden benches so she could be seen and clapping her handsfor attention. “Please settle down! The matter of the Baudelaires’ guilt or innocence isnot for you to decide.”“That doesn’t seem fair,” remarked a man in pajamas with a pattern of salmonswimming upstream. “After all, they woke us up in the middle of the night.”“The case is a matter for the High Court,” Justice Strauss said. “The authoritieshave been notified, and the other judges of the court are on their way. We will be ableto begin the trial in a matter of hours.”“I thought the trial was on Thursday,” said a woman in a nightgown emblazonedwith dancing clowns.“Showing up early is one of the signs of a noble person,” Justice Strauss said.“Once the other noble judges have arrived, we will decide on this matter-and otherequally important matters-once and for all.”There was a murmur of discussion in the crowd. “I suppose that’s all right,”grumbled someone.“All right?” Geraldine Julienne said. “It’s wonderful! I can see the headline now:‘HIGH COURT FINDS BAUDELAIRES GUILTY!’”“No one is guilty until the trial is over,” Justice Strauss said, and for the first timethe judge gazed down at the children and gave them a gentle smile. It was a smallmercy, that smile, and the frightened Baudelaires smiled back. Justice Strauss steppedoff the bench and walked through the murmuring crowd, followed by JeromeSqualor.“Don’t worry, children,” Jerome said. “It looks like you won’t have to wait untiltomorrow for justice to be served.”“I hope so,” Violet said.“I thought judges weren’t allowed to reach verdicts on people they know,” Klaussaid.“Normally that’s true,” Justice Strauss said. “The law should be impartial and fair.But I think I can be fair where Count Olaf is concerned.”“Besides,” Jerome said, “there are two other judges on the High Court. JusticeStrauss’s opinion is not the only one that matters.”“I trust my fellow judges,” Justice Strauss said. “I’ve known them for years, andthey’ve always been concerned whenever I’ve reported on your case. While we waitfor them to arrive, however, I’ve asked the managers of the hotel to put you in Room121, to keep you away from this angry crowd.”Without a word, Frank or Ernest unlocked the door and revealed the small, barecloset where Violet had found the harpoon gun. “We’ll be locked up?” Klaus saidnervously.“Just to keep you safe,” Justice Strauss said, “until the trial begins.”“Yes!” cried a voice the children would never forget. The crowd parted to revealCount Olaf, who walked toward the Baudelaires with a triumphant gleam in his eyes.“Lock them up!” he said. “We can’t have treacherous people running around thehotel! There are noble, decent people here.”“Really?” asked Colette.“Ha!” Count Olaf said. “I mean, of course! The High Court will decide who’snoble and who’s wicked. In the meantime, the orphans should be locked in a closet.”“Hear hear!” Kevin said, raising one arm and then the other in an ambidextroussalute.“They’re not the only ones,” Justice Strauss said sternly. “You, sir, have also beenaccused of a great deal of treachery, and the High Court is very interested in yourcase as well. You will be locked in Room 165 until the trial begins.”The man who was not Frank but Ernest, or vice versa, stepped sternly out of thecrowd and took Olaf’s arm.“Fair enough,” said Olaf. “I’m happy to wait for the verdict of the High Court.Ha!”The three siblings looked at one another, and then around the lobby, where thecrowd was looking fiercely back at them. They did not want to be locked in a smallroom, no matter what the reason, and they could not understand why the idea of theHigh Court reaching a verdict on Count Olaf made him laugh. However, they knewthat arguing with the crowd would be bootless, a word which here means “likely toget the siblings in even more trouble,” and so without another word, the threeBaudelaires stepped inside the closet. Jerome and Justice Strauss gave them a littlewave, and Mr. Poe gave them a little cough, and either Frank or Ernest steppedforward to shut the door. At the sight of the manager, the children suddenly thoughtnot of Dewey, but of the family left behind, just as Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were allleft behind after that first day at Briny Beach , and the dreadful news they receivedthere.“We’re sorry,” Sunny said, and the manager looked down at the youngestBaudelaire and blinked. Perhaps he was Frank, and thought the Baudelaires had donesomething wicked, or perhaps he was Ernest, and thought the Baudelaires had donesomething noble, but in either case the manager looked surprised that the childrenwere sorry. For a moment, he paused, and gave them a tiny nod, but then he shut thedoor and the Baudelaire children were alone. The door of Room 121 was surprisinglythick, and although the light of the lobby shone clearly through the gap at the bottomof the door, the noise of the crowd was nothing but a faint buzzing, like a swarm ofbees or the workings of a machine. The orphans sank to the floor, exhausted fromtheir busy day and their terrible, terrible night. They took off their shoes and leanedagainst one another in the cramped surroundings, trying to find a comfortableposition and listening to the buzz of the arguing crowd in the lobby.“What will happen to us?” Violet asked.“I don’t know,” Klaus said.“Perhaps we should have run,” Violet said, “like you suggested, Klaus.”“Perhaps at a trial,” the middle Baudelaire said, “the villains at last will be broughtto justice.”“Olaf,” Sunny asked, “or us?”What Sunny asked, of course, was whether Count Olaf was the villain who wouldbe brought to justice, or if it would be the three Baudelaires, but her siblings had noanswer for her. Instead, the eldest Baudelaire leaned down and kissed the top of hersister’s head, and Klaus leaned up to kiss Violet’s, and Sunny moved her head first tothe right and then to the left, to kiss both of them. If you had been in the lobby of theHotel Denouement, you would not have heard anything from behind the thick door ofRoom 121, as the Baudelaires ended their conversation with a great, shuddering sigh,and nestled close to one another in the small space. You would have had to be on theother side of the door, leaning against the children yourself, to hear the tiny, quietsounds as the Baudelaire orphans cried themselves to sleep, unable to answer Sunny’squestion.C H A P T E RElevenAn old expression, used even before the schism, says that people should not seethe creation of laws or sausages. This makes sense, as the creation of sausagesinvolves taking various parts of different animals and shaping them until they arepresentable at breakfast, and the creation of laws involves taking various parts ofdifferent ideas and shaping them until they are presentable at breakfast, and mostpeople prefer to spend their breakfasts eating food and reading the newspaper withoutbeing exposed to creation of any sort whatsoever.The High Court, like most courts, was not involved in the creation of laws, but itwas involved in the interpretation of laws, which is as perplexing and unfathomableas their creation, and like the interpretation of sausages is something that also shouldnot be seen. If you were to put this book down, and travel to the pond that nowreflects nothing but a few burnt scraps of wood and the empty skies, and if you wereto find the hidden passageway that leads to the underwater catalog that has remainedsecret and safe for all these years, you could read an account of an interpretation ofsausages that went horribly wrong and led to the destruction of a very importantbathyscaphe, all because I mistakenly thought the sausages were arranged in theshape of a K when actually the waiter had been trying to make an R, and an accountof an interpretation of the law that went horribly wrong, although it would hardly beworth the trip as that account is also contained in the remaining chapters of this book,but if you were at all sensible you would shield your eyes from such interpretations,as they are too dreadful to read. As Violet, Klaus, and Sunny caught a few winks-aphrase which here means “slept fitfully in the closet-sized Room 121”-arrangementswere made for the trial, during which the three judges of the High Court wouldinterpret the laws and decide on the nobility and treachery of Count Olaf and theBaudelaires, but the children were surprised to learn, when a sharp knock on the doorawakened them, that they would not see this interpretation themselves.“Here are your blindfolds,” said one of the managers, opening the door andhanding the children three pieces of black cloth. The Baudelaires suspected he wasErnest, as he hadn’t bothered to say “Hello.”“Blindfolds?” Violet asked.“Everyone wears blindfolds at a High Court trial,” the manager replied, “exceptthe judges, of course. Haven’t you heard the expression ‘Justice is blind’?”“Yes,” Klaus said, “but I always thought itmeant that justice should be fair andunprejudiced.”“The verdict of the High Court was to take the expression literally,” said themanager, “so everyone except the judges must cover their eyes before the trial canbegin.”“Scalia,” Sunny said. She meant something like, “It doesn’t seem like the literalinterpretation makes any sense,” but her siblings did not think it was wise totranslate.“I also brought you some tea,” he said, revealing a tray containing a teapot andthree cups. “I thought it might fortify you for the trial.”By “fortify,” the manager meant that a few sips of tea might give the childrensome much-needed strength for their ordeal, and the children thought it must beFrank who was doing them such a favor. “You’re very kind,” Violet said.“I’m sorry there’s no sugar,” he said.“That’s quite all right,” Klaus said, and then hurriedly flipped to a page in hiscommonplace book until he found his notes on the children’s conversation with KitSnicket. “‘Tea should be bitter as wormwood,’” he read, “‘and as sharp as a twoedged sword.’”The manager gave Klaus a small, unfathomable smile. “Drink your tea,” he said.“I’ll knock in a few minutes to bring you to trial.”Frank, unless it was Ernest, shut the door, and left the Baudelaires alone.“Why did you say that about the tea?” Violet asked.“I thought he might be talking to us in code,” Klaus said. “I thought if we gave theproper reply, something might happen.”“Unfathomable,” Sunny said.“Everything seems unfathomable,” Violet said with a sigh, pouring tea for hersiblings. “It’s getting so that I can’t tell a noble person from a wicked one.”“Kit said that the only way to tell a villain from a volunteer is to observe everyone,and make such judgements ourselves,” Klaus said, “but that hasn’t helped us at all.”“Today the High Court will do the judging for us,” Violet said. “Maybe they’llprove to be helpful.”“Or fail us,” Sunny said.The eldest Baudelaire smiled, and reached to help her sister put on her shoes. “Iwish our parents could see how much you’ve grown,” she said. “Mother always saidthat as soon as you learned to walk, Sunny, you’d be going places.”“I doubt a closet in the Hotel Denouement was what she had in mind,” Klaus said,blowing on his tea to cool it.“Who knows what they had in mind?” Violet asked. “That’s one more mysterywe’ll probably never solve.”Sunny took a sip of tea, which was indeed as bitter as wormwood and as sharp as atwo-edged sword, although the youngest Baudelaire had little experience withmetallic weapons or hoary aromatic plants of the composite family, used in certainrecreational tonics. “Mama and Poppa,” she said hesitantly, “and poison darts?”Her siblings did not have time to answer, as there was another knock on the door.“Finish your tea,” called either Frank or Ernest, “and put on your blindfolds. The trialis about to begin.”The Baudelaires hurried to follow the instructions of either the volunteer or thevillain, and took a few quick sips of their tea, tied their shoes, and wound the piecesof cloth around their eyes. In a moment they heard the door of Room 121 open, andheard Frank or Ernest step toward them.“Where are you?” he asked.“We’re right here,” Violet said. “Can’t you see us?”“Of course not,” the manager replied. “I’m also wearing a blindfold. Reach for myhand, and I’ll lead you to the trial.”The eldest Baudelaire reached out in front of her and found a large, rough handawaiting hers. Klaus took Violet’s other hand, and Sunny took Klaus’s, and in thisway the children were led out of Room 121. The expression “the blind leading theblind,” like the expression “Justice is blind,” is usually not taken literally, as it simplyrefers to a confusing situation in which the people in charge know nothing more thanthe people following them. But as the Baudelaires learned as they were led throughthe lobby, the blindfolded leading the blindfolded results in the same sort ofconfusion. The children could not see anything through their blindfolds, but the roomwas filled with the sounds of people looking for their companions, bumping upagainst one another, and running into the walls and furniture. Violet was poked in theeye by someone’s chubby finger. Klaus was mistaken for someone named Jerry by aman who gave him an enormous hug before learning of his mistake. And someonebumped into Sunny’s head, assumed she was an ornamental vase, and tried to placean umbrella in her mouth. Above the noise of the crowd, the Baudelaires heard theclock strike twelve insistent Wrong!s , and realized they had been sleeping quitesome time. It was already Wednesday afternoon, which meant that Thursday, and thearrival of their noble friends and associates, was quite close indeed.“Attention!” The voice of Justice Strauss was also quite close indeed, and rang outover the crowd, along with the repeated banging of a gavel, a word which refers tothe small hammer used by judges when they want someone’s attention. “Attentioneveryone! The trial is about to begin! Everyone please take your seats!”“How can we take our seats,” a man asked, “when we can’t see them?”“Feel around with your hands,” Justice Strauss said. “Move to your right. Further.Further. Further. Furth- ”“Ow!”“Not that far,” the judge said. “There! Sit! Now the rest of you follow his lead!”“How can we do what he did,” asked someone else, “if we can’t see him?”“Can we peek?” asked another person.“No peeking!” Justice Strauss said sternly. “Our system of justice isn’t perfect, butit’s the only one we have. I remind you that all three judges of the High Court arebare-eyed, and if you peek you will be guilty of contempt of court! ‘Contempt,’ bythe way, is a word for finding something worthless or dishonorable.”“I know what the word ‘contempt’ means,” snarled a voice the children could notrecognize.“I defined the word for the benefit of the Baudelaires,” Justice Strauss said, andthe children nodded their thanks in the direction of the judge’s voice, although allthree siblings had known the meaning of “contempt” since a night long ago whenUncle Monty had taken them to the movies. “Baudelaires, take three steps to yourright. Three more. One more. There! You’ve reached your bench. Please sit down.”The Baudelaires sat down on one of the lobby’s wooden benches and listened tothe footsteps of the manager as he left them alone and stumbled back into the settlingcrowd. Finally, it sounded as if everyone had found a seat of some kind or another,and with another few bangs of the gavel and calls for attention, the crowd quieteddown and Justice Strauss began the trial.“Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,” she said, her voice coming from right infront of the Baudelaires, “and anyone else who happens to be in attendance. It hascome to the attention of the High Court that certain wicked deeds have goneunpunished, and that this wickedness is continuing at an alarming rate. We planned tohold a trial on Thursday, but after the death of Mr. Denouement it is clear we shouldproceed earlier, in the interests of justice and nobility. We will hear what each witnesshas to say and determine once and for all who is responsible. The guilty parties willbe turned over to the authorities, who are waiting outside, making sure that no onewill try to escape while the trial is in progress.”“And speaking of guilty parties,” Count Olaf added, “when the trial is over,everyone is invited to a very in cocktail party, hosted by me! Wealthy women areparticularly welcome!”“I’m hosting it,” snarled the voice of Esmé Squalor, “and fashionable men will begiven a free gift.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate Peril“All gifts are free,” said either Frank or Ernest.“You’re out of order,” Justice Strauss said sternly, banging her gavel. “We arediscussing social justice, not social engagements. Now then, will the accused partiesplease stand and state their names and occupations for the record?”The Baudelaires stood up hesitantly.“You too, Count Olaf,” Justice Strauss said firmly. The wooden bench crackledbeside the Baudelaires, and they realized the notorious villain had also been sitting onthe bench, and was now standing beside them.“Name?” the judge asked.“Count Olaf,” Count Olaf replied.“Occupation?”“Impresario,” he said, using a fancy word for someone who puts on theatricalspectacles.“And are you innocent or guilty?” asked Justice Strauss.The children thought they could hear Olaf’s filthy teeth slide against his lips as hesmiled. “I’m unspeakably innocent,” he said, and murmuring spread through thecrowd like a ripple on the surface of a pond.“You may be seated,” Justice Strauss said, banging her gavel. “Children, you arenext. Please state your names.”“Violet Baudelaire,” said Violet Baudelaire.“Klaus Baudelaire,” said Klaus Baudelaire.“Sunny Baudelaire,” said Sunny Baudelaire.The children heard the scratching of a pen, and realized that the judge was writingdown everything that was being said. “Occupations?”The Baudelaires did not know how to answer this question. The word“occupation,” as I’m sure you know, usually refers to a job, but the Baudelaires’employment was sporadic, a word which here means “consisting of a great number ofoccupations, held for a short time and under very unusual circumstances.” The wordcan also refer to how one spends one’s time, but the siblings hardly liked to think ofall the dreadful things that had occupied them recently. Lastly, the word “occupation”can refer to the state one is in, such as being a woman’s husband, or a child’sguardian, but the youngsters were not certain how such a term could apply to thebewildering history of their lives. The Baudelaires thought and thought, and finallyeach gave their answer as they saw fit.“Volunteer,” Violet said.“Concierge,” Klaus said.“Child,” Sunny said.“I object!” Olaf said beside them. “Their proper occupation is orphan, or inheritorof a large fortune!”“Your objection is noted,” Justice Strauss said firmly. “Now then, Baudelaires, areyou guilty or innocent?”Once again, the Baudelaires hesitated before answering. Justice Strauss had notasked the children precisely what they were innocent or guilty of, and the expectanthush of the lobby did not make them want to ask the judge to clarify her question. Ingeneral, of course, the Baudelaire children believed themselves to be innocent,although they were certainly guilty, as we all are, of certain deeds that are anythingbut noble. But the Baudelaires were not standing in general. They were standing nextto Count Olaf. It was Klaus who found the words to compare the siblings’ innocenceand guilt with the innocence and guilt of a man who said he was unspeakablyinnocent, and after a pause the middle Baudelaire answered the judge’s question.“We’re comparatively innocent,” he said, and a ripple went through the crowdagain. The children heard the scratching of Justice Strauss’s pen again, and the soundof Geraldine Julienne’s enthusiastic voice.“I can see the headlines now!” she cried. “‘everybody is innocent!’ Wait until thereaders of The Daily Punctilio see that!”“Nobody is innocent,” Justice Strauss said, banging her gavel. “At least, not yet.Now then, all those in the courtroom who have evidence they would like to submit tothe court, please approach the judges and do so.”The room erupted into pandemonium, a word which here means “a crowd ofblindfolded people attempting to give evidence to three judges.” The Baudelaires saton the bench and heard people stumbling over one another as they all tried to submittheir research to the High Court.“I submit these newspaper articles!” announced the voice of Geraldine Julienne.“I submit these employment records!” announced Sir.“I submit these environmental studies!” announced Charles.“I submit these grade books!” announced Mr. Remora.“I submit these blueprints of banks!” announced Mrs. Bass.“I submit these administrative records!” announced Vice Principal Nero.“I submit this paperwork!” announced Hal.“I submit these financial records!” announced Mr. Poe.“I submit these rule books!” announced Mr. Lesko.“I submit these constitutions!” announced Mrs. Morrow.“I submit these carnival posters!” announced Hugo.“I submit these anatomical drawings!” announced Colette.“I submit these books,” announced Kevin, “with both my left and right hands!”“I submit these ruby-encrusted blank pages!” announced Esmé Squalor.“I submit this book about how wonderful I am!” announced Carmelita Spats.“I submit this commonplace book!” announced either Frank or Ernest.“So do I!” announced either Ernest or Frank.“I submit my mother!”This last voice was the first in a parade of voices the Baudelaires could notrecognize. It seemed that everyone in the lobby had something to submit to the HighCourt, and the Baudelaires felt as if they were in the middle of an avalanche ofobservations, research, and other evidence, some of which sounded exculpatory-aword which here means “likely to prove that the Baudelaires were innocent”- andsome of which sounded damning, a word which made the children shudder just tothink of it.“I submit these photographs!”“I submit these hospital records!”“I submit these magazine articles!”“I submit these telegrams!”‘I submit these couplets!”‘I submit these maps!”‘I submit these cookbooks!”‘I submit these scraps of paper!”‘I submit these screenplays!”‘I submit these rhyming dictionaries!”‘I submit these love letters!”‘I submit these opera synopses!”“I submit these thesauri!”“I submit these marriage licenses!”“I submit these Talmudic commentaries!”“I submit these wills and testaments!”“I submit these auction catalogs!”“I submit these codebooks!”“I submit these mycological encyclopedias!”“I submit these menus!”“I submit these ferry schedules!”“I submit these theatrical programs!”“I submit these business cards!”“I submit these memos!”“I submit these novels!”“I submit these cookies!”“I submit these assorted pieces of evidence I’m unwilling to categorize!”Finally, the Baudelaires heard a mighty thump! and the triumphant voice ofJerome Squalor. “I submit this comprehensive history of injustice!” he announced,and the lobby filled with the sound of applause and of hissing, as the volunteers andvillains reacted. Justice Strauss had to bang her gavel quite a few times before thecrowd settled down.“Before the High Court reviews this evidence,” the judge said, “we ask eachaccused person to give a statement explaining their actions. You can take as long asyou want to tell your story, but you should leave out nothing important. Count Olaf,you may go first.”The wooden bench crackled again as the villain stood up, and the Baudelairesheard Count Olaf sigh, and smelled his foul breath. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he said,“I’m so incredibly innocent that the word ‘innocent’ ought to be written on my facein capital letters. The letter I would stand for ‘I’m innocent.’ The letter N would standfor ‘nothing wrong,’ which is what I’ve done. The letter A would stand for-”“That’s not how you spell ‘innocent,’” Justice Strauss interrupted.“I don’t think spelling counts,” Count Olaf grumbled.“Spelling counts,” the judge said sternly.“Well, ‘innocence’ should be spelled O-L-A-F,” Count Olaf said, “and that’s theend of my speech.”The bench crackled as Olaf sat down.“That’s all you have to say?” Justice Strauss asked in surprise.“Yep,” Count Olaf said.“I told you not to leave out anything important,” the judge reminded him.“I’m the only important thing,” Count Olaf insisted, “and I’m very innocent. I’msure there’s more in that enormous pile of evidence that proves me innocent thanthere is that proves me guilty.”“Well, all right,” the judge said uncertainly. “Baudelaires, you may now tell usyour side of the story.”The Baudelaires stood up unsteadily, their legs trembling in nervous anticipation,but once again they did not quite know what to say.“Go on,” Justice Strauss said kindly. “We’re listening.”The Baudelaire orphans clasped hands. Although they had just been notified aboutthe trial a few hours ago, the children felt as if they had been waiting forever to standand tell their story to anyone who might listen. Although much of their story hadbeen told to Mr. Poe, and noted in Klaus’s commonplace book, and discussed withthe Quagmire triplets and other noble people they had met during their travels, theyhad never had the opportunity to tell their entire tale, from the dreadful day at BrinyBeach when Mr. Poe gave them the terrible news about their parents, to this veryafternoon, as they stood at the High Court hoping that all of the villains in their liveswould at last be brought to justice. Perhaps there had never been enough time to sitand tell their story just as they wanted to tell it, or perhaps their story was so unhappythat they dared not share all of the wretched details with anyone. Or perhaps theBaudelaires had simply not encountered anyone who listened to them as well as theirparents had. As the siblings stood before the High Court, they could picture the facesof their mother and father, and the expressions they wore when listening to theirchildren. Occasionally, one of the Baudelaires would be telling their parents a story,and there would be an interruption of some kind-the ringing of the phone, or the loudnoise of a siren outside, or even a remark from one of the other siblings. “Hush,” theBaudelaire parents would say to the interruption. “It’s not your day in court,” theywould say, and then they would turn back to the Baudelaire who was talking, andgive them a nod to indicate that the story should continue. The children stoodtogether, as the wooden bench creaked behind them, and started to tell the story oftheir lives, a story they had waited their lives to tell.“Well,” Violet said, “one afternoon my siblings and I were at Briny Beach . I wasdreaming up an invention that could retrieve a rock after you skipped it into theocean. Klaus was examining creatures in tide pools. And Sunny noticed that Mr. Poewas walking toward us.”“Hmm,” Justice Strauss said, but it wasn’t a thoughtful kind of “hmm.” Violetthought perhaps that the judge was saying “hmm” the way she had said “hmm” toeither Frank or Ernest, as a safe answer.“Go on,” said a low, deep voice that belonged to one of the other judges. “JusticeStrauss was merely being thoughtful.”“Mr. Poe told us that there had been a terrible fire,” Klaus continued. “Our homewas destroyed, and our parents were gone.”“Hmm,” Justice Strauss said again, but it wasn’t a sympathetic kind of “hmm.”Klaus thought perhaps that the judge was taking a sip of tea, to fortify herself as thesiblings told their story.“Please continue,” said another voice. This one was very hoarse, as if the thirdjudge had been screaming for hours and could hardly talk. “Justice Strauss wasmerely being sympathetic.”“Bildungsroman,” said Sunny. She meant something along the lines of, “Since thatmoment, our story has been a long, dreadful education in the wicked ways of theworld and the mysterious secrets hidden in all of its corners,” but before her siblingscould translate, Justice Strauss uttered another “hmm,” and this one was the strangestof all. It was not a thoughtful “hmm,” nor did it sound like a safe answer, and itcertainly wasn’t sympathetic, or the noise someone might make while taking a sip oftea. To Sunny the “hmm” sounded like a noise she’d heard a long time ago, not longafter the day on Briny Beach the children were describing. The youngest Baudelairehad heard the same noise coming from her own mouth, when she was danglingoutside Count Olaf’s tower room in a bird cage with a piece of tape covering hermouth. Sunny gasped, recognizing the sound just as Klaus recognized the voice ofthe second judge, and Violet recognized the voice of the third. Blindly, theBaudelaires reached out their hands to clutch one another in panic.“What shall we do?” Violet whispered, as quietly as possible.“Peek,” Sunny whispered back.“If we peek,” Klaus whispered, “we’ll be guilty of contempt of court.”“What are you waiting for, orphans?” asked the low, deep voice.“Yes,” said the hoarse one. “Continue your story.”But the Baudelaire orphans knew they could not continue their story, no matterhow long they had been waiting to tell it. At the sound of those familiar voices, theyhad no choice but to remove their blindfolds. The children did not care if they wereguilty of contempt of court, because they knew that if the other two judges were whothey thought they were, then the High Court was indeed something they foundworthless or dishonorable, and so without any further discussion they unwound thepieces of black cloth that covered their eyes, and the Baudelaire orphans peeked.It was a shocking and upsetting peek that awaited the Baudelaires. Squinting in thesudden light, they peeked straight ahead, where the voices of Justice Strauss and theother judges had come from. The children found themselves peeking at the conciergedesk, which was piled with all the evidence the crowd had submitted, includingnewspaper articles, employment records, environmental studies, grade books,blueprints of banks, administrative records, paperwork, financial records, rule books,constitutions, carnival posters, anatomical drawings, books, ruby-encrusted blankpages, a book alleging how wonderful Carmelita Spats was, commonplace books,photographs, hospital records, magazine articles, telegrams, couplets, maps,cookbooks, scraps of paper, screenplays, rhyming dictionaries, love letters, operasynopses, thesauri, marriage licenses, Talmudic commentaries, wills and testaments,auction catalogs, codebooks, mycological encyclopedias, menus, ferry schedules,theatrical programs, business cards, memos, novels, cookies, assorted pieces ofevidence a certain person was unwilling to categorize, and someone’s mother, all ofwhich Dewey Denouement had been hoping to catalog. Missing from the desk,however, was Justice Strauss, and as the Baudelaires peeked around the lobby, theysaw that another person was missing, too, for there was no one on the wooden bench,only a few etched rings from people wicked enough to set down glasses withoutusing coasters. Frantically, they peeked through the blindfolded crowd that waswaiting impatiently for them to continue their story, and finally they spotted CountOlaf at the far side of the room. Justice Strauss was there, too, tucked in the crook ofOlaf’s arm the way you might carry an umbrella if both your hands were full. Neitherof Count Olaf’s filthy hands were full, but they were both otherwise engaged, aphrase which here means that one hand was covering Justice Strauss’s mouth withtape, so she could only say “hmm,” and the other was hurriedly pressing the buttonrequesting an elevator. The harpoon gun, with its last hook gleaming wickedly, wasleaning against the wall, within easy reach of the treacherous villain.All this was a shocking and upsetting peek, of course, but even more shocking andupsetting was what the children saw when they returned their gaze to the conciergedesk. For sitting at either end, with their elbows on the pile of evidence, were twovillains at whom the children had hoped very much they would never get a peekagain, villains of such wickedness that it is far too shocking and upsetting for me towrite down their names. I can only describe them as the man with a beard, but nohair, and the woman with hair, but no beard, but to the Baudelaire orphans, these twovillainous judges were another peek at the wicked way of the world.C H A P T E RTwelveThe man with a beard but no hair stood up from the concierge desk, his kneesbumping against the little bells that had sent the Baudelaire orphans on their errands.The woman with hair but no beard pointed a finger at the three children that lookedas crooked as she was. The finger had been broken long ago, in a dispute over a gameof backgammon, which is another story that would take at least thirteen books todescribe, but in the Baudelaires’story the finger only made this brief appearance as itpointed at the children in alarm.“The Baudelaires have taken off their blindfolds!” cried the villainous woman inher low, deep voice.“Yes!” agreed the villainous man, in his hoarse voice. “They’re guilty of contemptof court!”“We certainly are,” Violet agreed fiercely. “This court is worthless anddishonorable!”“Two of the judges are notorious villains,” Klaus announced over the gasps of thecrowd.“Peek!” Sunny cried.“Nobody peek!” ordered the man with a beard but no hair. “Anyone who peekswill be turned over to the authorities!”“Take off your blindfolds!” Violet begged the crowd. “Count Olaf is kidnappingJustice Strauss this very moment!”“Hmm!” cried Justice Strauss in agreement, from behind the tape.“Justice Strauss is enjoying a piece of saltwater taffy!” the woman with hair but nobeard said quickly. “That’s why she’s talking in hmms!”“She’s not enjoying anything!” Klaus cried. “If there are any volunteers in thecrowd, take off your blindfolds and help us!”“The children are trying to trick you!” said the man with a beard but no hair.“Keep your blindfolds on!”“Yes!” cried the woman with hair but no beard. “They’re trying to get all noblepeople arrested by the authorities!”“Real McCoy!” Sunny yelled.“I think the children might be telling the truth,” Jerome Squalor said hesitantly.“Those brats are liars!” Esmé snapped. “They’re worse than my ex-boyfriend!”“I believe them!” Charles said, scratching at his blindfold. “They’ve experiencedvillainy before!”“I don’t!” Sir announced. The children could not tell if he was wearing a blindfoldunderneath the cloud of smoke that still hung over his head. “They’re nothing buttrouble!”“They’re telling the truth!” cried Frank, probably, unless it was Ernest.“They’re lying!” cried Ernest, most likely, although I suppose it could have beenFrank.“They’re good students!” said Mr. Remora.“They’re lousy administrative assistants!” said Vice Principal Nero.“They’re bank robbers!” said Mrs. Bass, whose blindfold was covering her small,narrow mask.“Bank robbers?” Mr. Poe asked. “Egad! Who said that?”“They’re guilty!” cried the man with a beard but no hair, although the High Courtwasn’t supposed to reach a verdict until all the evidence had been examined.“They’re innocent!” cried Hal.“They’re freaks!” screamed Hugo.“They’re twisted!” shrieked Colette.“They’re right-handed!” yelled Kevin.“They’re headlines!” screeched Geraldine Julienne.“They’re escaping!” said the woman with hair but no beard, and this, at least, wasa true statement. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny realized that the crowd was going to donothing that would stop Count Olaf from dragging Justice Strauss away from thetrial, and that the people in the lobby would fail them, as so many noble people hadfailed them before. As the volunteers and villains argued around them, the childrenmade their way quickly and stealthily away from the bench and toward JusticeStrauss and Count Olaf, who was picking up the harpoon gun. If you’ve ever wantedone more cookie than people said you could have, then you know how difficult it isto move quickly and stealthily at the same time, but if you’ve had as muchexperience as the Baudelaires in dodging the activities of people who were shoutingat you, then you know that with enough practice you can move quickly and stealthilyjust about anywhere, including across an enormous, domed lobby while a crowd callsfor your capture.“We must capture them!” called a voice in the crowd.“It will take a village to capture the Baudelaires!” shrieked Mrs. Morrow. “Wecan’t see them through our blindfolds!”“We don’t want to be guilty of contempt of court!” yelled Mr. Lesko. “Let’s feelour way toward the hotel entrance so they can’t escape!”“The authorities are guarding the entrance!” the man with a beard but no hairreminded the crowd. “The Baudelaires are running toward the elevators! Capturethem!”“But don’t capture anyone else who happens to be standing near the elevators!”added the woman with hair but no beard, looking hurriedly at Olaf. The sliding doors ofan elevator began to open, and the Baudelaires moved as quickly and stealthily as theycould through the crowd who were reaching out blindly in all directions.“Search the entire hotel,” said the villianous man, “and bring us anyone who youfind suspicious!”“We’ll tell you if they’re villains or not,” said the villainous woman. “After all,you can’t make such judgements yourselves!”“Wrong!”The enormous clock of the Hotel Denouement, the stuff of legend, announced oneo’clock, thundering through the room of the blindfolded leading the blindfolded, justas the three siblings reached the elevators. Count Olaf had already dragged JusticeStrauss inside and was hurriedly pressing the button that closes the elevator doors,but Sunny stuck out one of her feet and held them open, which is something onlyvery brave people attempt. Olaf leaned forward to whisper threateningly at theBaudelaires.“Let me go,” he whispered threateningly, “or I’ll announce to everyone where youare.”Olaf, however, was not the only person who could whisper threateningly. “Let usin,” Violet whispered threateningly, “or we’ll announce to everyone where you are.”“Hmm!” Justice Strauss said.Count Olaf glared at the children, and the children glared back, until at last thevillain stepped aside and let the Baudelaires join him and his prisoner in the elevator.“Going down?” he asked, and the children blinked. They had been so intent onescaping the crowd and reaching the judge that they hadn’t considered exactly wherethey might go afterward.“We’re going wherever you go,” Klaus said.“I have a few errands to run,” Olaf said. “Ha! First I’m going down to thebasement, to retrieve the sugar bowl. Ha! Then I’m going up to the roof, to retrievethe Medusoid Mycelium. Ha! Then I’m going down to the lobby, to expose thefungus to everyone in the lobby. Ha! And then, finally, I’m going up to the roof, toescape without being seen by the authorities.”“You’ll fail,” Sunny said, and Olaf glared down at the youngest Baudelaire.“Your mother told me the same thing,” he said. “Ha! But one day, when I wasseven years old-”The elevator’s doors slid open as it arrived at the basement, and the villaininterrupted himself and quickly dragged Justice Strauss out into the hallway. “Followme!” he called back to the Baudelaires. The children, of course, did not want tofollow this horrid man any more than they wanted to put cream cheese in their hair,but they looked at one another and could not think of what else they could do.“You can’t retrieve the sugar bowl,” Violet said. “You’ll never open theVernacularly Fastened Door.”“Can’t I?” Olaf asked, stopping at Room 025. The lock was still stretched securelyacross the door, as it had been when Sunny left it. “This hotel is like an enormouslibrary,” the villain said, “but you can find any item in a library if you have onething.”“Catalog?” Sunny asked.“No,” Count Olaf replied, and pointed the harpoon gun at the judge. “A hostage.”With that, he turned to Justice Strauss and ripped the tape off her mouth very slowly,so it would sting as much as possible. “You’re going to help me open this lock,” heinformed her, with a wicked smile.“I will do nothing of the sort!” Justice Strauss replied. “The Baudelaires will helpme drag you back up to the lobby, where justice can be served!”“Justice isn’t being served in the lobby,” Olaf growled, “or anywhere else in theworld!”“Don’t be so sure of that!” Justice Strauss said, and reached behind her back. TheBaudelaires looked hopefully at what she was holding, but their hopes fell when theysaw what it was. “Odious Lusting After Finance,” she read out loud, holding upJerome Squalor’s comprehensive history of injustice. “There’s enough evidence inhere to put you in jail for the rest of your life!”“Justice Strauss,” Violet said, “your fellow judges on the High Court are associatesof Count Olaf. Those villains will never put Olaf in jail.”“It can’t be!” Justice Strauss gasped. “I’ve known them for years! I’ve told themeverything that was happening to you children, and they were always veryinterested!”“Of course they were interested, you fool,” Count Olaf said. “They passed alongall that information to me, so I could catch up with the orphans! You’ve been helpingme all along, without even knowing it! Ha!”Justice Strauss leaned against an ornamental vase, and her eyes filled with tears.“I’ve failed you again, Baudelaires,” she said. “No matter how I’ve tried to help you,I’ve only put you in more danger. I thought justice would be served if you told theHigh Court your story, but-”“No one’s interested in their story,” Count Olaf said scornfully. “Even if you wrotedown every last detail, no one would read such a dreadful thing. I’ve triumphed overthe orphans and over any other person foolish or noble enough to stand in my way.It’s the unraveling of my story, or, as the French say, the noblesse oblige.”“Denouement” Sunny corrected, but Olaf acted as though he had not heard, andturned his attention to the lock on the door.“That idiot sub-sub said the first phrase is a description of a medical condition thatall three Baudelaire children share,” he muttered, and turned to Justice Strauss. “Tellme what it is, or prepare to eat harpoon.”“Never,” Justice Strauss said. “I may have failed these children, but I won’t failV.F.D. You’ll never get the sugar bowl, no matter what terrible threats you make.”“I’ll tell you what the first phrase is,” Klaus said calmly, and his siblings looked athim in astonishment. Justice Strauss looked at him in amazement. Even Count Olafseemed a little puzzled.“You will?” he asked.“Certainly,” Klaus said. “It’s just like you said, Count Olaf. Every noble personhas failed us. Why should we protect the sugar bowl?”“Klaus!” Violet and Sunny cried, in simultaneous astonishment.“No!” Justice Strauss cried, in solitary amazement.Count Olaf looked a little puzzled again, but then shrugged his dusty shoulders.“O.K.,” he said, “tell me what medical condition you and your orphan siblingsshare.”“We’re allergic to peppermints,” Klaus said, and quickly typed A-L-L-E-R-G-I-CT-O-P-E-P-P-E-R-M-I-N-T-S into the lock. Immediately, there was a muted clickingsound from the typewriter keyboard.“It’s warming up,” Count Olaf said, in a delighted wheeze. “Get out of the way,four-eyes! The second phrase is the weapon that left me an orphan, and I can typethat one in myself. P-O-Y-Z-”“Wait!” Klaus said, before Olaf could touch the keyboard. “That can’t be right.Those letters don’t spell anything.”“Spelling doesn’t count,” said the count.“Yes, it does,” Klaus said. “Tell me what the weapon is that left you an orphan,and I’ll type it in for you.”Count Olaf gave Klaus a slow smile that made the Baudelaires shudder. “CertainlyI’ll tell you,” he said. “It was poison darts.”Klaus looked at his sisters, and then in grim silence typed P-O-I-S-O-N-D-A-R-TS into the lock, which began to buzz quietly. Count Olaf’s eyes shone brightly as hestared at the wires of the lock, which began to shake as they stretched around thehinges of the laundry room door.“It’s working,” he said, and ran his tongue over his filthy teeth. “The sugar bowl isso close I can taste it!”Klaus took his commonplace book from his pocket, and read his notes intently fora moment. Then he turned to Justice Strauss. “Give me that book, please,” he said,pointing to Jerome Squalor’s book. “The third phrase is the famous unfathomablequestion in the best-known novel by Richard Wright. Richard Wright was anAmerican novelist of the realist school whose writings illuminated the disparities inrace relations. It is likely his work is quoted in a comprehensive history of injustice.”“You can’t read that entire book!” Count Olaf said. “The crowd will find us beforeyou finish the first chapter!”“I’ll look in the index,” Klaus said, “just like I did at Aunt Josephine’s, when wedecoded her note and found her hiding place.”“I always wondered how you did that,” Olaf said, sounding almost as if headmired the middle Baudelaire’s research skills. Klaus paged to the back of the book,where the index can usually be found. An index, as I’m sure you know, is a list ofeverything a book contains, and where each item can be found.“Wright, Richard,” Klaus read aloud. “Unfathomable question in Native Son ,page 581.”“That’s the five hundred and eighty-first page,” Count Olaf explained for no one’sbenefit, a phrase which here means “even though that was clear to everyone in thehallway.”Klaus flipped hurriedly to the proper page and scanned it quickly, his eyes blinkingbehind his glasses. “I found it,” he said quietly. “It’s quite an interesting question,actually.”“No one cares about interesting questions!” Olaf said. “Type it in this instant!”Klaus smiled, and began typing furiously into the typewriter keyboard. His sistersstepped forward, and each of them put a hand on their brother’s shoulder.“Why do this?” Sunny asked.“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “Why are you helping Olaf get into the laundryroom?”The middle Baudelaire typed the last word into the keyboard, which was “T-O-PP-L-I-N-G,” and then looked at his sisters. “Because the sugar bowl isn’t there,” hesaid, and pushed open the door.“What do you mean?” Count Olaf demanded. “Of course the sugar bowl is inthere!”“I’m afraid Olaf is right,” Justice Strauss said. “You heard what Dewey said.When the crows were shot with the harpoon gun, they fell onto the birdpaper anddropped the sugar bowl into the funnel.”“So it would appear,” Klaus said slyly.“Enough nonsense!” Count Olaf shouted, waving his harpoon gun in the air andstomping into the laundry room. In just a few moments, however, it was clear that themiddle Baudelaire had spoken the truth. The laundry room of the Hotel Denouementwas very small, just large enough to hold a few washing and drying machines, somepiles of dirty sheets, and a few plastic jugs of what were presumably some extremelyflammable chemicals, just as Dewey had said. A metal tube hung over one corner ofthe ceiling, allowing steam from the machines to float up the tube and outside, butthere was no sign that a sugar bowl had fallen through the funnel and dropped out themetal tube to the wooden floor of the laundry room. With a hoarse, angry roar, CountOlaf opened the doors of the washing and drying machines and slammed themclosed, and then picked up the piles of dirty sheets and sent them tumbling onto thefloor.“Where is it?” he snarled, drops of spit flying from his furious mouth. “Where’sthe sugar bowl?”“It’s a secret,” Klaus said. “A secret that died with Dewey Denouement.”Count Olaf turned to face the Baudelaire orphans, who had never seen him lookthis frightening. His eyes had never gleamed as brightly, and his smile had neverbeen as peccant, a word which here means “so hungry for evil deeds as to beunhealthy.” It was not unlike the face of Dewey had been as he sank into the water, asif the villain’s own wickedness was causing him great pain. “He won’t be the onlyvolunteer who dies today,” he said, in a terrible whisper. “I’ll destroy every soul inhis hotel, sugar bowl or no sugar bowl. I’ll unleash the Medusoid Mycelium, andvolunteers and villains alike will perish in agony. My comrades have failed me asoften as my enemies, and I’m eager to be rid of them. Then I’ll push that boat off theroof, and sail away with-”“You can’t push that boat off the roof,” Violet said. “It would never survive thefall, due to the force of gravity.”“I suppose I’ll have to add the force of gravity to my list of enemies,” Olafmuttered.“I’ll get that boat off the roof,” Violet said calmly, and her siblings looked at her inastonishment. Justice Strauss looked at her in amazement. Even Count Olaf seemed alittle puzzled.“You will?” he asked.“Certainly,” Violet said. “It’s just like you said, Count Olaf. Every noble personhas failed us. Why shouldn’t we help you escape?”“Violet!” Klaus and Sunny cried, in simultaneous astonishment.“No!” Justice Strauss cried, in solitary amazement.Count Olaf still looked puzzled, but gave the eldest Baudelaire a shrug. “O.K.,” hesaid. “What do you need?”“A few of those dirty sheets,” Violet said. “I’ll tie them together and make a dragchute, just like I did in the Mortmain Mountains when I stopped the caravan fromfalling off the mountain.”“I always wondered how you did that,” Olaf said, looking at the eldest Baudelaireas if he respected her inventing skills. Violet walked into the laundry room andgathered some sheets into her arms, trying to choose the least dirty of the bunch.“Let’s go to the roof,” she said quietly Her siblings stepped forward, and each ofthem put a hand on their sister’s shoulder.“Why do this?” Sunny asked.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “Why are you helping Olaf escape?”The eldest Baudelaire looked at the sheets in her hand, and then at her siblings.“Because he’ll take us with him,” she said.“Why would I do that?” Olaf asked.“Because you need more than a one-person crew,” Violet said slyly, “and we needto leave this hotel without being spotted by the authorities.”“I suppose that’s true,” Olaf said. “Well, you would have ended up in my clutchesin any case. Come along.”“Not yet,” Sunny said. “One more thing.”Everyone stared at the youngest Baudelaire, who was wearing an expression sounfathomable that even her siblings could not tell what she was thinking. “One morething?” Count Olaf repeated, staring down at Sunny. “What could that be?”The two eldest Baudelaires looked at their sister, and felt a cold ripple in theirstomachs, as if a stone had somehow been dropped straight into the siblings. It is verydifficult to make one’s way in this world without being wicked at one time oranother, when the world’s way is so wicked to begin with. When unfathomablesituations arose in the lives of the Baudelaires, and they did not know what to do, thechildren often felt as if they were balancing very delicately on top of something veryfragile and very dangerous, and that if they weren’t careful they might fall a verylong way into a sea of wickedness. Violet felt this delicate balance when she offeredto help Count Olaf escape, even though it meant that she and her siblings couldescape, too, and Klaus felt this delicate balance when he helped Olaf unlock thelaundry room door, even though the sugar bowl was not to be found inside. And ofcourse, all three Baudelaire orphans felt this delicate balance when they thoughtabout Dewey Denouement, and that terrible instant when the weapon in their handsbrought about his death. But as Sunny answered Count Olaf’s question, the clock ofthe Hotel Denouement struck two Wrong!s , and her siblings wondered if they hadlost their balance at last and were tumbling away from all the noble people in theworld.“Burn down hotel,” Sunny said, and all three Baudelaire orphans felt as if theywere falling.C H A P T E RThirteen“Ha!” Count Olaf crowed. “This takes the cake!” He was using an expressionwhich here means “I find this especially amusing and outrageous!” although DeweyDenouement’s underwater catalog contains a list of twenty-seven cakes that Olaf hasstolen. With a look of treacherous glee he reached down and patted Sunny Baudelaireon the head, using the hand that wasn’t clutching the harpoon gun. “After all thistime, the littlest orphan wants to follow in my footsteps!” he cried. “I knew I was agood guardian after all!”“You’re not a good guardian,” Violet said, “and Sunny’s not an arsonist. My sisterdoesn’t know what she’s saying.”“Burn down hotel,” Sunny insisted.“Are you feeling all right, Sunny?” Klaus asked, peering into his sister’s eyes. Hewas worried that the Medusoid Mycelium, which had threatened the life of theyoungest Baudelaire just days ago, was affecting her in some sinister way. Klaus hadresearched a way to dilute the treacherous fungus, but he wondered now if dilutionwas not enough.“I feel fine,” Sunny said. “Burn down hotel.”“That’s my girl!” Count Olaf cried. “I only wish Carmelita had your spunk! Withall the errands I had to do, burning down this hotel hadn’t even occurred to me. Buteven when you’re very busy, you should always take time for your hobbies.”“Your hobbies,” Justice Strauss said, “are nothing but villainy, Count Olaf. TheBaudelaires may want to join you in wickedness, but I’ll do anything in my power tostop you.”“There’s nothing in your power,” Olaf sneered. “Your fellow judges are comradesof mine, your fellow volunteers are running around the lobby of this hotel wearingblindfolds, and I have the harpoon gun.”“I have a comprehensive history of injustice!” Justice Strauss cried. “This bookshould be good for something!”The villain did not continue his argument, but merely pointed the weapon at thejudge. “You orphans will start the fire here in the laundry room,” he said, “while Imake sure Justice Strauss doesn’t stop us.”“Yes, sir,” Sunny said, and reached for her siblings’ hands.“No!” Justice Strauss cried.“Why are you doing this, Sunny?” Violet asked her sister. “You’re going to hurtinnocent people!”“Why are you helping Count Olaf burn down this building?” Klaus cried.Sunny looked at the laundry room, and then up at her siblings. In silence, she shookher head, as if this were not the time to discuss such matters. “Help me,” she said, and shedid not have to say anything more. Although Violet and Klaus found their sister’s actionsunfathomable, they followed her into the laundry room as Olaf uttered a succinct laugh oftriumph.“Ha!” Count Olaf cried. “Pay attention, orphans, and I’ll teach you some of mybest tricks. First, spread those dirty sheets all over the floor. Then, take those jugs ofextremely flammable chemicals and pour them all over the sheets.”In silence, Violet spread the rest of the sheets over the laundry room’s woodenfloor, while Klaus and Sunny walked over to the plastic jugs, opened them, andspilled them all over the sheets. A strong, bitter smell wafted from the laundry roomas the children turned to Olaf and asked what was next.“What is next?” Sunny asked.“Next is a match and some kindling,” Olaf replied, and reached into his pocketwith the hand that wasn’t holding the gun. “I always carry matches on my person,” hesaid, “just as my enemies always carry kindling.” He leaned forward and snatchedOdious Lusting After Finance out of Justice Strauss’s hands. “This book is good forsomething,” he said, and tossed it into the center of the dirty sheets, narrowly missingthe siblings as they walked into the hallway. Jerome Squalor’s book opened as itlanded, and the children saw what looked like a carefully drawn diagram, with arrowsand dotted lines and a paragraph of notation underneath.The Baudelaires leaned forward to see if they could read what the injustice experthad written, and caught only the word “passageway” before Olaf lit a match andtossed it expertly onto the page. The paper caught on fire at once, and the book beganto burn.“Oh,” Sunny said quietly, and leaned against her siblings. All three Baudelaires,and the adults standing with them, stared into the laundry room in silence.The burning of a book is a sad, sad sight, for even though a book is nothing but inkand paper, it feels as if the ideas contained in the book are disappearing as the pagesturn to ashes and the cover and binding-which is the term for the stitching and gluethat holds the pages together-blacken and curl as the flames do their wicked work.When someone is burning a book, they are showing utter contempt for all of thethinking that produced its ideas, all of the labor that went into its words andsentences, and all of the trouble that befell the author, from the swarm of termites thattried to destroy his notes, to the large boulder that someone rolled onto the illustratoras he sat by the edge of the pond waiting for the delivery of the manuscript. JusticeStrauss gazed at the book with a shocked frown, perhaps thinking of JeromeSqualor’s research and all the villains it might have brought to justice. Count Olafstared at the book with a smug smile, perhaps thinking of all of the other libraries hehad destroyed. But you and I know there is no “perhaps” about what the Baudelaireorphans were thinking as they stared at the flames devouring the comprehensivehistory of injustice. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were thinking of the fire that took theirparents and their home and dropped them into the world to fend for themselves, aphrase which here means “go first from guardian to guardian, and then fromdesperate situation to desperate situation, trying to survive and solve the mysteriesthat hung over their heads like smoke.” The Baudelaire orphans were thinking of thefirst fire that had come into their lives, and wondering if this one would be the last.“We’d best get away from here,” Count Olaf said, breaking the silence. “In myexperience, once the flames reach the chemicals, the fire will spread very quickly.I’m afraid the cocktail party will be canceled, but if we hurry, there’s still time toinfect the guests of his hotel with the Medusoid Mycelium before we escape. Ha! Tothe elevators!”Twirling the harpoon gun in his hands, the villain strode down the hallway,dragging the judge as he went, and the Baudelaires hurried to follow. When theyreached the elevator, the children looked at a sign posted near one of the ornamentalvases. The sign was identical to one posted in the lobby, and it is a sign you haveprobably seen yourself. in case of fire, it said, in fancy script, use stairs. do not useelevator.“Stairs,” Sunny said, pointing at the sign. “Ignore that,” Olaf said scornfully,punching the button to summon an elevator.“Dangerous,” Sunny pointed out. “Take the stairs.”“You may have had the idea to burn down the hotel,” Count Olaf said, “but I’mstill the boss, baby! We won’t get to the fungus in time if we take the stairs! We’retaking the elevator!”“Drat,” Sunny said quietly, and frowned in thought. Violet and Klaus looked attheir sister curiously, wondering why a child who didn’t mind setting a hotel on firewould be upset over something like an elevator. But then Sunny gazed up at hersiblings with a sly smile, and uttered one word that made everything clear.“Preludio,” she said, and after a moment her siblings grinned.“What?’” Olaf asked sharply, and punched the button over and over again, whichnever helps.“What my sister means,” Violet said, “is that she appreciates the lesson on settingfires,” but that is not what the youngest Baudelaire meant at all. By “Preludio,” hersiblings knew, Sunny was referring to the Hotel Preludio, and the weekend vacationthe entire Baudelaire family had spent there. As Kit Snicket had mentioned, the HotelPreludio was a lovely place, and I am happy to report that it is still standing, like asmall mercy, and that its ballroom still has its famous chandeliers, which are shapedlike enormous jellyfish and move up and down in time to the music that the orchestraplays, and that the bookstore in the lobby still specializes in the work of Americannovelists of the realist school, and the outdoor swimming pool is still as beautiful asit ever was, its reflection of the hotel windows shimmering whenever anyone dives into swim laps. But the Baudelaire orphans were not remembering the chandeliers, orthe bookstore, or even the swimming pool, where Sunny first learned to blowbubbles. They were remembering a prank their father had taught them, when he wasin one of his whimsical moods, that can be played in any elevator. The prank, a wordwhich here means “joke played on someone with whom you are sharing an elevator,”is best played at the moment when you are about to get off the elevator, and yourfellow passengers are heading to a higher story. The Baudelaires’ mother hadobjected to their father teaching them such a prank, as she said it was undignified, buttheir father had pointed out it was no more undignified than doing magic tricks withdinner rolls, which their mother had done that very morning in the hotel restaurant,and she reluctantly agreed to participate in the prank. This particular moment in theBaudelaires’ lives, of course, was not the best one for a prank, but Violet and Klaussaw immediately what their sister had in mind, and when the sliding doors openedand Count Olaf stomped inside the elevator, the three Baudelaires followed him andimmediately pressed every single button. When the Baudelaires’ father had done thisafter exiting the elevator, it meant that the remaining passenger, a tiresome womannamed Eleanora. had been forced to visit every story on the way up to her room, buthere in the Hotel Denouement, the prank served a dual purpose, a phrase which heremeans “enabled the Baudelaires to do two things at once.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 12 - ThePenultimate Peril“What are you doing?” Olaf shrieked. “I’ll never reach the Medusoid Mycelium intime to poison everyone!”“We’ll be able to warn as many people as possible that the building is on fire!”cried Justice Strauss.“Dual purpose,” Sunny said, and shared a small smile with her siblings as theelevator reached the lobby and opened its doors. The enormous, domed room wasnearly empty, and the Baudelaires could see that everyone had followed the advice ofthe two wicked judges of the High Court, and were wandering blindfolded around thehotel.“Fire!” cried Violet immediately knowing the doors would slide shut in an instant.“Attention everyone! There’s a fire in the hotel! Please leave at once!”The man with a beard but no hair was standing nearby, with his hand on JeromeSqualor’s shoulder so he could push the injustice expert around. “Fire?” he said, inhis strange, hoarse voice. “Good work, Olaf!”“What do you mean, good work?” demanded Jerome, a frown appearing below hisblindfold.“I meant to say, ‘there’s Olaf!’” the man said hurriedly, pushing Jerome in thedirection of the elevator. “Capture him! He needs to be brought to the authorities!”“Olaf is here?” asked probably Frank, who was feeling his way along the wallalong with his brother. “I’m going to capture him!”“Where are the Baudelaires?” demanded probably Ernest. “I’m going to capturethem!”“In the elevator!” shouted the woman with hair but no beard from across the lobby,but the sliding doors were already closing.“Call the fire department!” Violet cried desperately.“Which one?” was the reply, but the children could not tell if it came from Frankor Ernest, and the doors slid shut on this one last glimpse of the villains andvolunteers before elevator began its rise to the second story.“Those judges promised that if I waited until tomorrow I’d see all my enemiesdestroyed,” Count Olaf grumbled, “and now they’re trying to capture me. I knewthey’d fail me some day.”The Baudelaires did not have time to point out that Olaf had also failed the judges,by planning to poison them, along with everyone else in the lobby, with theMedusoid Mycelium, because the elevator immediately stopped on the second storyand opened its doors.“There’s a fire in the hotel!” Klaus called into the hallway. “Everyone leave atonce!”“A fire?” said Esmé Squalor. The Baudelaires were surprised to see that thistreacherous woman was still wearing her blindfold, but perhaps she had decided thatpieces of black cloth were in. “Who said that?”“It’s Klaus Baudelaire,” Klaus Baudelaire said. “You need to get out of the hotel!”“Don’t listen to that cakesniffer!” cried Carmelita Spats, who was running a handover an ornamental vase. “He’s just trying to escape from us! Let’s take off ourblindfolds and peek!”“Don’t take off your blindfolds!” cried Count Olaf. “Those Baudelaires are guiltyof contempt of court, and they’re trying to trick you into joining them! There’s nofire! Whatever you do, don’t leave the hotel!”“We’re not tricking you!” Klaus said. “Olaf is tricking you! Please believe us!”“I don’t know who to believe,” Esmé said scornfully “You orphans are asdishonest as my ex-boyfriend.”“Leave us alone!” Carmelita ordered, bumping into a wall. “We can find our ownway!”The doors slid shut before the Baudelaires could argue any further, and indeed thechildren never argued with either unpleasant female again. In a moment, the elevatorarrived at the third story, and Sunny raised her voice so that she could be heard byanyone, treacherous or noble, in the hallway.“Fire!“ she cried. ”Use stairs. Do not use elevator!”“Sunny Baudelaire?” Mr. Poe called, recognizing the child’s voice. The bankerwas facing the entirely wrong direction, and holding a white handkerchief up to hisblack blindfold. “Don’t add the false reporting of fire to your list of crimes! You’realready guilty of contempt of court, and perhaps murder!”“It’s not false!” Justice Strauss exclaimed. “There really is a fire, Mr. Poe! Leavethis hotel!”“I can’t leave,” Mr. Poe replied, coughing into his handkerchief. “I’m still incharge of the Baudelaires’ affairs and their parents’ fort-”The elevator doors closed before Mr. Poe could finish his word, and theBaudelaires were taken away from the banker one last time, and with each stop of theelevator, I’m sorry to say, it was more or less the same. The Baudelaires saw Mrs.Bass on the third story, still wearing her small blond wig like a snowcap on the top ofa mountain peak, and her blindfold, stretched over her small, narrow mask, and theysaw Mr. Remora, who was wandering around the seventh story with Vice PrincipalNero. They saw Geraldine Julienne, who was using her microphone the way someblind people use a cane, and they saw Charles and Sir, who were holding hands so asnot to lose one another, and they saw Hugo and Colette and Kevin, who were holdingthe birdpaper Klaus had hung outside the window of the sauna, and they saw Mr.Lesko arguing with Mrs. Morrow, and they saw a man with a guitar making friendswith a woman in a crow-shaped hat, and they saw many people they did notrecognize, either as volunteers or as villains, who were wandering the hallways of thehotel to capture anyone they might find suspicious. Some of these people believedthe Baudelaires when they told them the news of the fire, and some of these peoplebelieved Count Olaf when he told them that the Baudelaires were lying, and some ofthese people believed Justice Strauss when she told them that Count Olaf was lyingwhen he said the Baudelaires were lying when they told them the news of the fire.But the elevator’s stop on each story of the hotel was very brief, and the children hadonly a glimpse of each of these people. They heard Mrs. Bass mutter somethingabout a getaway car, and they heard Mr. Remora wonder something about friedbananas. They heard Nero worry about his violin case, and Geraldine squeal aboutheadlines, and they heard Charles and Sir bicker over whether or not fires were goodfor the lumber industry. They heard Hugo ask if the plan for the hors d’ouvres wasstill in operation, and they heard Colette ask about plucking the feathers off crows,and they heard Kevin complain that he didn’t know whether to hold the birdpaper inhis right hand or his left hand, and they heard Mr. Lesko insult Mrs. Morrow, and thebearded man sing a song to the woman with the crow-shaped hat, and they heard aman call for Bruce and a woman call for her mother and dozens of people whisper toand shout at, argue with and agree upon, angrily accuse and meekly defend, furiouslycompliment and kindly insult dozens of other people, both inside and outside theHotel Denouement, whose names the Baudelaires recognized, forgot, and had neverheard before. Each story had its story, and each story’s story was unfathomable in theBaudelaire orphans’ short journey, and many of the stories’ stories are unfathomableto me, even after all these lonely years and all this lonely research. Perhaps some ofthese stories are clearer to you, because you have spied upon the people involved.Perhaps Mrs. Bass has changed her name and lives near you, or perhaps Mr.Remora’s name is the same, and he lives far away. Perhaps Nero now works as agrocery store clerk, or Geraldine Julienne now teaches arts and crafts. PerhapsCharles and Sir are no longer partners, and you have had the occasion to study one ofthem as he sat across from you on a bus, or perhaps Hugo, Colette, and Kevin are stillcomrades, and you have followed these unfathomable people after noticing that oneof them used both hands equally. Perhaps Mr. Lesko is now your neighbor, or Mrs.Morrow is now your sister, or your mother, or your aunt or wife or even yourhusband. Perhaps the noise you hear outside your door is a bearded man trying toclimb into your window, or perhaps it is a woman in a crow-shaped hat hailing a taxi.Perhaps you have spotted the managers of the Hotel Denouement, or the judges of theHigh Court, or the waiters of Cafe Salmonella or the Anxious Clown, or perhaps youhave met an expert on injustice or become one yourself. Perhaps the people in yourunfathomable life, and their unfathomable stories, are clear to you as you make yourway in the world, but when the elevator stopped for the last time, and the doors slidopen to reveal the tilted roof of the Hotel Denouement, the Baudelaires felt as if theywere balancing very delicately on a mysterious and perplexing heap of unfathomablemysteries. They did not know who would survive the fire they had helped set, andwho would perish. They did not know who thought they were volunteers and whothought they were villains, or who believed they were innocent and who believedthey were guilty. And they did not know if their own observations, errands, and deedsmeant that they were noble, or wicked, or somewhere in between. As they steppedout of the elevator and walked across the rooftop sunbathing salon, the Baudelaireorphans felt as if their entire lives were like a book, filled with crucial information,that had been set aflame, like the comprehensive history of injustice that was nowjust ashes in a fire growing more enormous by the second.“Look!” cried Count Olaf, leaning over the edge of the hotel and pointing down.The Baudelaires looked, expecting to see the enormous, calm surface of the pondreflecting the Hotel Denouement back at them like an enormous mirror. But the airwas stained with patches of thick, black smoke that poured out of the basementwindows as the fire began to spread, and the surface of the pond looked like a seriesof tiny mirrors, each broken into strange, unfathomable shapes. Here and there,among the smoke and mirrors, the children could see the tiny figures running thisway and that, but could not tell if they were the authorities on the ground, or peoplein the hotel running to escape from the blaze.Olaf continued to gaze downward, and the Baudelaires could not tell if he lookedpleased or disappointed. “Thanks to you orphans,” he said, “it’s too late to destroyeveryone with the Medusoid Mycelium, but at least we got to start a fire.”Justice Strauss was still gazing at the smoke pouring from the windows and risinginto the sky, and her expression was equally unfathomable. “Thanks to you orphans,”she said quietly to the Baudelaires, “this hotel will be destroyed by fire, but at leastwe stopped Olaf from releasing the fungus.”“The fire isn’t burning very quickly,” Olaf said. “Many people will escape.”“The fire isn’t burning slowly, either,” Justice Strauss said. “Some people won’t.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another, but before anyone could sayanything further, the entire building trembled, and the children had to struggle tokeep their balance on the tilted roof. The shiny sunbathing mats tumbled across thesalon, and the water in the swimming pool splashed against the side of the large,wooden boat, dampening the figurehead of the octopus attacking a man in a divingsuit.“The fire is weakening the structural foundations of the building,” Violet said.“We have to get out of here,” Klaus said.“Pronto,” Sunny said.Without another word the Baudelaires turned from the adults and strode quicklytoward the boat. Shifting the pile of sheets into one hand, Violet took off herconcierge hat, reached into her pocket, and found the ribbon Kit Snicket had givenher, which she used to tie up her hair. Klaus reached into his pocket and found hiscommonplace book, which he began to flip through. Sunny did not reach into herpocket, but she scraped her sharp teeth together thoughtfully, as she suspected theymight be needed.Violet stared critically at the boat. “I’ll attach the drag chute to the figurehead,”she said. “I should be able to tie a Devil’s Tongue knot around the helmet of thediver.” She paused for a moment. “That’s where the Medusoid Mycelium is hidden,”she said. “Count Olaf kept it there, where no one would think of looking.”Klaus stared critically at his notes. “I’ll angle the sail to catch the wind,” he said.“Otherwise, a heavy object like this would fall straight down into the water.” Hepaused for a moment, too. “That’s what happened to the sugar bowl,” he said.“Dewey Denouement let everyone think it had fallen into the laundry room, so noone would find it in the pond.”“Spatulas as oars,” Sunny said, pointing to the implements that Hugo had used toflip over the sunbathers.“Good idea,” Violet agreed and gazed out to the gray, troubled waters of the sea.“Maybe our friends will find us. Hector should be flying this way, with Kit Snicketand the Quagmires.”“And Fiona,” Klaus added.“No,” Sunny said.“What do you mean?” Violet asked, stepping carefully from the edge of the poolonto the side of the boat, where she began to climb a rope ladder up to the figurehead.“They said they would arrive by Thursday,” Klaus said, helping Sunny climbaboard and then stepping onto the boat himself. The deck was about the size of alarge mattress, big enough to hold the Baudelaires and perhaps one or two morepassengers. “It’s Wednesday afternoon.”“The fire,” Sunny said, and pointed at the smoke as it rose toward the sky.The two older Baudelaires gasped. They had almost forgotten that Kit had toldthem she would be watching the skies, looking for a signal that would cancelThursday’s gathering.“That’s why you thought of lighting the fire,” Violet said, hurriedly tying thesheets around the figurehead. “It’s a signal.”“V.F.D. will see it,” Klaus said, “and know that all their hopes have gone up insmoke.”Sunny nodded. “The last safe place,” she said, “is safe no more.”It was an impressive sentence for the youngest Baudelaire, but a sad one.“Maybe our friends will find us anyway,” Violet said. “They might be the lastnoble people we know.”“If they’re truly noble,” Klaus said, “they might not want to be our friends.”Violet nodded, and her eyes filled with tears. “You’re right,” she admitted. “Wekilled a man.”“Accident,” Sunny said firmly.“And burned down a hotel,” Klaus said.“Signal,” Sunny said.“We had good reasons,” Violet said, “but we still did bad things.”“We want to be noble,” Klaus said, “but we’ve had to be treacherous.”“Noble enough,” Sunny said, but the building trembled again, as if shaking itshead in disagreement. Violet hung on to the figurehead and Klaus and Sunny hung onto each other as the boat bumped against the sides of the swimming pool.“Help us!” Violet cried to the adults, who were still staring at the rising smoke.“Grab those spatulas, and push the boat to the edge of the roof!”“Don’t boss me around!” Olaf growled, but he followed the judge to a corner ofthe roof where the spatulas lay, their mirrors reflecting the afternoon sun and the skyas it darkened with smoke. Each adult grabbed one spatula, and poked at the boat theway you might poke at a spider you were trying to get out of your bathtub. Bump!Bump! The sailboat bumped against the edge of the pool, and then jostled its way outof the pool, where it slowly slid, with a loud scraping sound, to the far edge of theroof. The Baudelaires hung on tightly as the front half of the boat kept sliding acrossthe mirrors of the salon, until it was hanging over nothing but the smoky air. The boattipped this way and that, in a delicate balance between the roof of the hotel and thesea below.“Climb aboard!” Violet cried, giving her knots one last tug.“Of course I’ll climb aboard!” Olaf announced, narrowing his eyes at the helmet ofthe figurehead. “I’m the captain of this boat!” He threw his spatula onto the deck,narrowly missing Klaus and Sunny, and then bounded onto the ship, making it teeterwildly on the edge of the building.“You too, Justice Strauss!’ Klaus called, but the judge just put down her spatulaand looked sadly at the children.“No,” she said, and the children could see she was crying. “I won’t go. It’s notright.”“What else can we do?” Sunny said, but Justice Strauss just shook her head.“I won’t run from the scene of a crime,” she said. “You children should come withme, and we’ll explain everything to the authorities.”“They might not believe us,“ Violet said, readying the drag chute, ”or there mightbe enemies lurking in their ranks, like the villains in the High Court.”“Perhaps,” the judge said, “but that’s no excuse for running away.”Count Olaf gave his former neighbor a scornful look, and then turned to theBaudelaires. “Let her burn to a crisp if she wants,” he said, “but it’s time for us togo.”Justice Strauss took a deep breath, and then stepped forward and put her hand onthe hideous wooden carving, as if she meant to drag the whole boat back onto thehotel. “There are people who say that criminal behavior is the destiny of childrenfrom a broken home,” she said, through her tears. “Don’t make this your destiny,Baudelaires.”Klaus stood at the mast, adjusting the controls of the sail. “This boat,” he said, “isthe only home we have.”“I’ve been following you all this time,” she said, her grip tightening on thefigurehead. “You’ve always been just out of my grasp, from the moment Mr. Poetook you away from the theater in his car to the moment Kit Snicket took youthrough the hedges in her taxi. I won’t let you go, Baudelaires!”Sunny stepped toward the judge, and for one moment her siblings thought she wasgoing to step off the boat. But then she merely looked into the judge’s weeping eyes,and gave her a very sad smile.“Good-bye,” she said, and the Baudelaire opened her mouth and bit the hand ofjustice. With a cry of pain and frustration, Justice Strauss let go of the figurehead, andthe building trembled again, sending the judge tumbling to the ground, and the boattumbling off the roof, just as the clock of the Hotel Denouement announced the hourfor the very last time.Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! The clock struck three times, and the three Baudelairesscreamed as they hurtled toward the sea, and even Count Olaf cried “Mommy!” as itseemed for a terrible moment that their luck had run out at last, and that the boatwould not survive the fall, due to the force of gravity. But then Violet let go of thedirty sheets, and the drag chute billowed into the air, looking almost like anotherpatch of smoke against the sky, and Klaus moved the sail to catch the wind, and theboat stopped falling and started to glide, the way a bird will catch the wind, and restits wings for a few moments, particularly if it is tired from carrying something heavyand important. For a moment, the boat floated down through the air, like somethingin a magical story, and even in their panic and fear the Baudelaires could not helpmarveling at the way they were escaping. Finally, with a mighty splash! the boatlanded in the ocean, quite a distance from the burning hotel. For another terriblemoment, it felt like the boat was going to sink into the water, just as DeweyDenouement had sunk into the pond, guarding his underwater catalog and all itssecrets, and leaving the woman he loved pregnant and distraught. But the sail caughtthe wind, and the figurehead righted itself, and Olaf picked up his spatula and handedit to Sunny.“Start rowing,” he ordered, and then began to cackle, his eyes shining bright.“You’re in my clutches at last, orphans,” he said. “We’re all in the same boat.”The Baudelaires looked at the villain, and then at the shore. For a moment theywere tempted to jump overboard and swim back toward the city and away from Olaf.But when they looked at the smoke, pouring from the windows of the hotel, and theflames, curling around the lilies and moss that someone had grown with such care onthe walls, they knew it would be just as dangerous on land. They could see the tinyfigures of people standing outside the hotel, fiercely pointing toward the sea, and theysaw the building tremble. It seemed that the Hotel Denouement would soon be senttoppling, and the children wanted to be far away. Dewey had promised them that theywouldn’t be at sea anymore, but at this moment the sea, for the Baudelaires, was thelast safe place.Richard Wright, an American novelist of the realist school, asks a famousunfathomable question in his best-known novel, Native Son . “Who knows whensome slight shock,” he asks, “disturbing the delicate balance between social orderand thirsty aspiration, shall send the skyscrapers in our cities toppling?” It is adifficult question to read, almost as if it is in some sort of code, but after muchresearch I have been able to make some sense of its mysterious words. “Socialorder,” for instance, is a phrase which may refer to the systems people use to organizetheir lives, such as the Dewey Decimal System, or the blindfolded procedures of theHigh Court. And “thirsty aspiration” is a phrase which may refer to things peoplewant, such as the Baudelaire fortune, or the sugar bowl, or a safe place that lonelyand exhausted orphans can call home. So when Mr. Wright asks his question, hemight be wondering if a small event, such as a stone dropping into a pond, can causeripples in the systems of the world, and tremble the things that people want, until allthis rippling and trembling brings down something enormous, such as a building.The Baudelaires, of course, did not have a copy of Native Son on the wooden boatthat served as their new home, but as they gazed across the water at the HotelDenouement, they were asking themselves a question not unlike Mr. Wright’s. Violet,Klaus, and Sunny wondered about all the things, large and small, that they had done.They wondered about their observations as flaneurs, which left so many mysteriesunsolved. They wondered about all their errands as concierges, which brought aboutso much trouble. And they wondered if they were still the noble volunteers theywanted to be, or if, as the fire made its wicked way through the hotel, and thebuilding threatened to topple, it was their destiny to become something else. TheBaudelaire orphans stood in the same boat as Count Olaf, the notorious villain, andlooked out at the sea, where they hoped they could find their noble friends, andwondered what else they could do, and who they might become.A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEndASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the ThirteenthThe EndBy: Lemony SnicketDear Reader,You are presumably looking at the back of this book, or the end of THE END. The endof THE END is the best place to begin THE END, because if you read THE END from thebeginning of the beginning of THE END to the end of the end of THE END, you willarrive at the end of the end of your rope.This book is the last in A Series of Unfortunate Events, and even if you braved theprevious twelve volumes, you probably can’t stand such unpleasantries as a fearsomestorm, a suspicious beverage, a herd of wild sheep, an enormous bird cage, and a trulyhaunting secret about the Baudelaire parents.It has been my solemn occupation to complete the history of the Baudelaire orphans,and at last I am finished. You likely have some other occupation, so if I were you I woulddrop this book at once, so THE END does not finish you.With all due respect,Lemony SnicketFor Beatrice —I cherished, you perished,The world’s been nightmarished.TABLE OF CONTENTSCHAPTER One . 7CHAPTER Two . 13CHAPTER Three . 19CHAPTER Four 25CHAPTER Five . 31CHAPTER SIX .. 36CHAPTER Seven . 44CHAPTER Eight 49CHAPTER Nine . 56CHAPTER Ten . 62CHAPTER Eleven . 68CHAPTER Twelve . 74CHAPTER Thirteen . 81CHAPTER FOURTEEN .. 96CHAPTEROneIf you have ever peeled an onion, then you know that the first thin, papery layerreveals another thin, papery layer, and that layer reveals another, and another, andbefore you know it you have hundreds of layers all over the kitchen table andthousands of tears in your eyes, sorry that you ever started peeling in the first placeand wishing that you had left the onion alone to wither away on the shelf of thepantry while you went on with your life, even if that meant never again enjoying thecomplicated and overwhelming taste of this strange and bitter vegetable.In this way, the story of the Baudelaire orphans is like an onion, and if you insiston reading each and every thin, papery layer in A Series of Unfortunate Events, youronly reward will be 170 chapters of misery in your library and countless tears in youreyes. Even if you have read the first twelve volumes of the Baudelaires’ story, it isnot too late to stop peeling away the layers, and to put this book back on the shelf towither away while you read something less complicated and overwhelming. The endof this unhappy chronicle is like its bad beginning, as each misfortune only revealsanother, and another, and another, and only those with the stomach for this strangeand bitter tale should venture any farther into the Baudelaire onion. I’m sorry to tellyou this, but that is how the story goes.The Baudelaire orphans would have been happy to see an onion, had one comebobbing along as they traveled across the vast and empty sea in a boat the size of alarge bed but not nearly as comfortable. Had such a vegetable appeared, Violet, theeldest Baudelaire, would have tied up her hair in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes,and in moments would have invented a device to retrieve the onion from the water.Klaus, the middle sibling and the only boy, would have remembered useful facts fromone of the thousands of books he had read, and been able to identify which type ofonion it was, and whether or not it was edible. And Sunny, who was just scarcely outof babyhood, would have sliced the onion into bite-sized pieces with her unusuallysharp teeth, and put her newly developed cooking skills to good use in order to turn asimple onion into something quite tasty indeed. The elder Baudelaires could imaginetheir sister announcing “Soubise!” which was her way of saying “Dinner is served.”But the three children had not seen an onion. Indeed, they had not seen much ofanything during their ocean voyage, which had begun when the Baudelaires hadpushed the large, wooden boat off the roof of the Hotel Denouement in order toescape from the fire engulfing the hotel, as well as the authorities who wanted toarrest the children for arson and murder. The wind and tides had quickly pushed theboat away from the burning hotel, and by sunset the hotel and all the other buildingsin the city were a distant, faraway blur. Now, the following morning, the only thingsthe Baudelaires had seen were the quiet, still surface of the sea and the gray gloom ofthe sky. The weather reminded them of the day at Briny Beach when the Baudelaireshad learned of the loss of their parents and their home in a terrible fire, and thechildren spent much of their time in silence, thinking about that dreadful day and allof the dreadful days that had followed. It almost would have been peaceful to sit in adrifting boat and think about their lives, had it not been for the Baudelaires’unpleasant companion.Their companion’s name was Count Olaf, and it had been the Baudelaire orphans’misfortune to be in this dreadful man’s company since they had become orphans andhe had become their guardian. Olaf had hatched scheme after scheme in an attempt toget his filthy hands on the enormous fortune the Baudelaire parents had left behind,and although each scheme had failed, it appeared as if some of the villain’swickedness had rubbed off on the children, and now Olaf and the Baudelaires wereall in the same boat. Both the children and the count were responsible for a number oftreacherous crimes, although at least the Baudelaire orphans had the decency to feelterrible about this, whereas all Count Olaf had been doing for the past few days wasbragging about it.“I’ve triumphed!” Count Olaf reiterated, a word which here means “announced forthe umpteenth time.” He stood proudly at the front of the boat, leaning against acarving of an octopus attacking a man in a diving suit that served as the boat’sfigurehead. “You orphans thought you could escape me, but at last you’re in myclutches!”“Yes, Olaf,” Violet agreed wearily. The eldest Baudelaire did not bother to pointout that as they were all alone in the middle of the ocean, it was just as accurate tosay that Olaf was in the Baudelaires’ clutches as it was to say they were in his.Sighing, she gazed up at the tall mast of the boat, where a tattered sail drooped limplyin the still air. For some time, Violet had been trying to invent a way for the boat tomove even when there wasn’t any wind, but the only mechanical materials on boardwere a pair of enormous spatulas from the Hotel Denouement’s rooftop sunbathingsalon. The children had been using these spatulas as oars, but rowing a boat is veryhard work, particularly if one’s traveling companions are too busy bragging to helpout, and Violet was trying to think of a way they might move the boat faster.“I’ve burned down the Hotel Denouement,” Olaf cried, gesturing dramatically,“and destroyed V.F.D. once and for all!”“So you keep telling us,” Klaus muttered, without looking up from hiscommonplace book.For quite some time, Klaus had been writing down the details of the Baudelaires’situation in this dark blue notebook, including the fact that it was the Baudelaires, notOlaf, who had burned down the Hotel Denouement. V.F.D. was a secret organizationthat the Baudelaires had heard about during their travels, and as far as the middleBaudelaire knew it had not been destroyed—not quite—although quite a few V.F.D.agents had been in the hotel when it caught fire. At the moment, Klaus wasexamining his notes on V.F.D. and the schism, which was an enormous fightinvolving all of its members and had something to do with a sugar bowl. The middleBaudelaire did not know what the sugar bowl contained, nor did he know the precisewhereabouts of one of the organization’s bravest agents, a woman named Kit Snicket.The children had met Kit only once before she headed out to sea herself, planning tomeet up with the Quagmire triplets, three friends the Baudelaires had not seen inquite some time who were traveling in a self-sustaining hot air mobile home. Klauswas hoping the notes in his commonplace book would help him figure out exactlywhere they might be, if he studied them long enough.“And the Baudelaire fortune is finally mine!” Olaf cackled. “Finally, I am a verywealthy man, which means everybody must do what I say!”“Beans,” Sunny said. The youngest Baudelaire was no longer a baby, but she stilltalked in a somewhat unusual way, and by “beans” she meant something like, “CountOlaf is spouting pure nonsense,” as the Baudelaire fortune was not to be found in thelarge, wooden boat, and so could not be said to belong to anyone. But when Sunnysaid “beans,” she also meant “beans.” One of the few things the children had foundon board the boat was a large clay jar with a rubber seal, which had been wedgedunderneath one of the boat’s wooden benches. The jar was quite dusty and lookedvery old, but the seal was intact, a word which here means “not broken, so the foodstored inside was still edible.” Sunny was grateful for the jar, as there was no otherfood to be found on board, but she couldn’t help wishing that it had containedsomething other than plain white beans. It is possible to cook a number of deliciousdishes with white beans—the Baudelaire parents used to make a cold salad of whitebeans, cherry tomatoes, and fresh basil, all mixed together with lime juice, olive oil,and cayenne pepper, which was a delicious thing to eat on hot days— but without anyother ingredients, Sunny had only been able to serve her boat mates handfuls of abland, white mush, enough to keep them alive, but certainly nothing in which ayoung chef like herself could take pride. As Count Olaf continued to brag, theyoungest Baudelaire was peering into the jar, wondering how she could makesomething more interesting out of white beans and nothing else.“I think the first thing I’ll buy for myself is a shiny new car!” Count Olaf said.“Something with a powerful engine, so I can drive faster than the legal limit, and anextra-thick bumper, so I can ram into people without getting all scratched up! I’llname the car Count Olaf, after myself, and whenever people hear the squeal of brakesthey’ll say, ‘Here comes Count Olaf!’ Orphans, head for the nearest luxury cardealership!”The Baudelaires looked at one another. As I’m sure you know, it is unlikely for acar dealership to be found in the middle of the ocean, although I have heard of arickshaw salesman who does business in a grotto hidden deep in the Caspian Sea. Itis very tiresome to travel with someone who is constantly making demands,particularly if the demands are for utterly impossible things, and the children foundthat they could no longer hold their tongues, a phrase which here means “keep fromconfronting Olaf about his foolishness.”“We can’t head for a car dealership,” Violet said. “We can’t head anywhere. Thewind has died out, and Klaus and I are exhausted from rowing.”“Laziness is no excuse,” Olaf growled. “I’m exhausted from all my schemes, butyou don’t see me complaining.”“Furthermore,” Klaus said, “we have no idea where we are, and so we have noidea which direction to go in.”“I know where we are,” Olaf sneered. “We’re in the middle of the ocean.”“Beans,” Sunny said.“I’ve had enough of your tasteless mush!” Olaf snarled. “It’s worse than that saladyour parents used to make! All in all, you orphans are the worst henchmen I’ve everacquired!”“We’re not your henchmen!” Violet cried. “We simply happen to be travelingtogether!”“I think you’re forgetting who the captain is around here,” Count Olaf said, andknocked one dirty knuckle against the boat’s figurehead. With his other hand, hetwirled his harpoon gun, a terrible weapon that had one last sharp harpoon availablefor his treacherous use. “If you don’t do what I say, I’ll break open this helmet andyou’ll be doomed.”The Baudelaires looked at the figurehead in dismay. Inside the helmet were a fewspores of the Medusoid Mycelium, a terrible fungus that could poison anyone whobreathed it in. Sunny would have perished from the mushroom’s deadly power not solong ago, had the Baudelaires not managed to find a helping of wasabi, a Japanesecondiment that diluted the poison.“You wouldn’t dare release the Medusoid Mycelium,” Klaus said, hoping hesounded more certain than he felt. “You’d be poisoned as quickly as we would.”“Equivalent flotilla,” Sunny said sternly to the villain.“Our sister’s right,” Violet said. “We’re in the same boat, Olaf. The wind has dieddown, we have no idea which way to go, and we’re running low on nourishment. Infact, without a destination, a way of navigating, and some fresh water, we’re likely toperish in a matter of days. You might try to help us, instead of ordering us around.”Count Olaf glared at the eldest Baudelaire, and then stalked to the far end of theboat. “You three figure out a way to get us out of here,” he said, “and I’ll work onchanging the nameplate of the boat. I don’t want my yacht called Carmelitaanymore.”The Baudelaires peered over the edge of the boat, and noticed for the first time anameplate attached to the rear of the boat with thick tape. On the nameplate, writtenin a messy scrawl, was the word “Carmelita,” presumably referring to CarmelitaSpats, a nasty young girl whom the Baudelaires had first encountered at a dreadfulschool they were forced to attend, and who later had been more or less adopted byCount Olaf and his girlfriend Esmé Squalor, whom the villain had abandoned at thehotel. Putting down the harpoon gun, Count Olaf began to pick at the tape with hisdirt-encrusted fingernails, peeling away at the nameplate to reveal another nameunderneath. Although the Baudelaire orphans did not care about the name of the boatthey now called home, they were grateful that the villain had found something to dowith his time so they could spend a few minutes talking among themselves.“What can we do?” Violet whispered to her siblings. “Do you think you can catchsome fish for us to eat, Sunny?”The youngest Baudelaire shook her head. “No bait,” she said, “and no net. Deepsea dive?”“I don’t think so,” Klaus said. “You shouldn’t be swimming down there withoutthe proper equipment. There are all sorts of sinister things you could encounter.”The Baudelaires shivered, thinking of something they had encountered while onboard a submarine called the Queequeg. All the children had seen was a curvy shapeon a radar screen that resembled a question mark, but the captain of the submarinehad told them that it was something even worse than Olaf himself. “Klaus is right,”Violet said. “You shouldn’t swim down there. Klaus, is there anything in your notesthat might lead us to the others?”Klaus shut his commonplace book and shook his head. “I’m afraid not,” he said.“Kit told us she was going to contact Captain Widdershins and meet him at a certainclump of seaweed, but even if we knew exactly which clump she meant, we wouldn’tknow how to get there without proper navigation equipment.”“I could probably make a compass,” Violet said. “All I need is a small piece ofmagnetized metal and a simple pivot. But maybe we shouldn’t join the othervolunteers. After all, we’ve caused them a great deal of trouble.”“That’s true,” Klaus admitted. “They might not be happy to see us, particularly ifwe had Count Olaf along.”Sunny looked at the villain, who was still scraping away at the nameplate.“Unless,” she said.Violet and Klaus shared a nervous glance. “Unless what?” Violet asked.Sunny was silent for a moment, and looked down at the concierge uniform she wasstill wearing from her time at the hotel. “Push Olaf overboard,” she whispered.The elder Baudelaires gasped, not just because of what Sunny had said but becausethey could easily picture the treacherous act Sunny had described. With Count Olafoverboard, the Baudelaires could sail someplace without the villain’s interference, orhis threats to release the Medusoid Mycelium. There would be one fewer person withwhom to share the remaining beans, and if they ever reached Kit Snicket and theQuagmires they wouldn’t have Olaf along. In uneasy silence they turned their gazesto the back of the boat, where Olaf was leaning over to peel off the nameplate. Allthree Baudelaires could imagine how simple it would be to push him, just hardenough for the villain to lose his balance and topple into the water.“Olaf wouldn’t hesitate to throw us overboard,” Violet said, so quietly her siblingscould scarcely hear her. “If he didn’t need us to sail the boat, he’d toss us into thesea.”“V.F.D. might not hesitate, either,” Klaus said.“Parents?” Sunny asked.The Baudelaires shared another uneasy glance. The children had recently learnedanother mysterious fact about their parents and their shadowy past—a rumorconcerning their parents and a box of poison darts. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, like allchildren, had always wanted to believe the best about their parents, but as time wenton they were less and less sure. What the siblings needed was a compass, but not thesort of compass Violet had mentioned. The eldest Baudelaire was talking about anavigational compass, which is a device that allows a person to tell you the properdirection to travel in the ocean. But the Baudelaires needed a moral compass, whichis something inside a person, in the brain or perhaps in the heart, that tells you theproper thing to do in a given situation. A navigational compass, as any good inventorknows, is made from a small piece of magnetized metal and a simple pivot, but theingredients in a moral compass are not as clear. Some believe that everyone is bornwith a moral compass already inside them, like an appendix, or a fear of worms.Others believe that a moral compass develops over time, as a person learns about thedecisions of others by observing the world and reading books. In any case, a moralcompass appears to be a delicate device, and as people grow older and venture outinto the world, it often becomes more and more difficult to figure out which directionone’s moral compass is pointing, so it is harder and harder to figure out the properthing to do. When the Baudelaires first encountered Count Olaf, their moralcompasses never would have told them to get rid of this terrible man, whether bypushing him out of his mysterious tower room or running him over with his long,black automobile. But now, standing on the Carmelita, the Baudelaire orphans werenot sure what they should do with this villain who was leaning so far over the boatthat one small push would have sent him to his watery grave.But as it happened, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not have to make this decision,because at that instant, as with so many instants in the Baudelaire lives, the decisionwas made for them, as Count Olaf straightened up and gave the children a triumphantgrin. “I’m a genius!” he announced. “I’ve solved all of our problems! Look!”The villain gestured behind him with one thick thumb, and the Baudelaires peeredover the edge of the boat and saw that the CARMELITA nameplate had beenremoved, revealing a nameplate reading COUNT OLAF, although this nameplate,too, was attached with tape, and it appeared that yet another name-plate wasunderneath this one. “Renaming the boat doesn’t solve any of our problems,” Violetsaid wearily.“Violet is right,” Klaus said. “We still need a destination, a way of navigating, andsome kind of nourishment.”“Unless,” Sunny said, but Count Olaf interrupted the youngest Baudelaire with asly chuckle.“You three are really quite slow-witted,” the villain said. “Look at the horizon, youfools, and see what is approaching! We don’t need a destination or a way ofnavigating, because we’ll go wherever it takes us! And we’re about to get more freshwater than we could drink in a lifetime!”The Baudelaires looked out at the sea, and saw what Olaf was talking about.Spilling across the sky, like ink staining a precious document, was an immense bankof black clouds. In the middle of the ocean, a fierce storm can arrive out of nowhere,and this storm promised to be very fierce indeed—much fiercer than HurricaneHerman, which had menaced the Baudelaires some time ago during a voyage acrossLake Lachrymose that ended in tragedy. Already the children could see the thin,sharp lines of rain falling some distance away, and here and there the clouds flickeredwith furious lightning.“Isn’t it wonderful?” Count Olaf asked, his scraggly hair already fluttering in theapproaching wind. Over the villain’s nefarious chuckle the children could hear thesound of approaching thunder. “A storm like this is the answer to all your whining.”“It might destroy the boat,” Violet said, looking nervously up at the tattered sails.“A boat of this size is not designed to withstand a heavy storm.”“We have no idea where it will take us,” Klaus said. “We could end up evenfurther from civilization.”“All overboard,” Sunny said.Count Olaf looked out at the horizon again, and smiled at the storm as if it were anold friend coming to visit. “Yes, those things might happen,” he said with a wickedsmile. “But what are you going to do about it, orphans?”The Baudelaires followed the villain’s gaze to the storm. It was difficult to believethat just moments ago the horizon had been empty, and now this great black mass ofrain and wind was staining the sky as it drew closer and closer. Violet, Klaus, andSunny could do nothing about it. An inventing mind, the notes of a researcher, andsurprisingly adept cooking skills were no match for what was coming. The stormclouds unfurled wider and wider, like the layers of an onion unpeeling, or a sinistersecret becoming more and more mysterious. Whatever their moral compass told themabout the proper thing to do, the Baudelaire orphans knew there was only one choicein this situation, and that was to do nothing as the storm engulfed the children and thevillain as they stood together in the same boat.It is useless for me to describe to you how terrible Violet, Klaus, and even Sunnyfelt in the hours that followed. Most people who have survived a storm at sea are soshaken by the experience that they never want to speak of it again, and so if a writerwishes to describe a storm at sea, his only method of research is to stand on a large,wooden boat with a notebook and pen, ready to take notes should a storm suddenlystrike. But I have already stood on a large, wooden boat with a notebook and pen,ready to take notes should a storm suddenly strike, and by the time the storm clearedI was so shaken by the experience that I never wanted to speak of it again. So it isuseless for me to describe the force of the wind that tore through the sails as if theywere paper, and sent the boat spinning like an ice-skater showing off. It is impossiblefor me to convey the volume of rain that fell, drenching the Baudelaires in freezingwater so their concierge uniforms clung to them like an extra layer of soaked and icyskin. It is futile for me to portray the streaks of lightning that clattered down from theswirling clouds, striking the mast of the boat and sending it toppling into the churningsea. It is inadequate for me to report on the deafening thunder that rang in theBaudelaires’ ears, and it is superfluous for me to recount how the boat began to tiltback and forth, sending all of its contents tumbling into the ocean: first the jar ofbeans, hitting the surface of the water with a loud glop!, and then the spatulas, thelightning reflecting off their mirrored surfaces as they disappeared into the swirlingtides, and lastly the sheets Violet had taken from the hotel laundry room andfashioned into a drag chute so the boat would survive its drop from the rooftopsunbathing salon, billowing in the stormy air like jellyfish before sinking into the sea.It is worthless for me to specify the increasing size of the waves rising out of water,first like shark fins, and then like tents, and then finally like glaciers, their icy peaksclimbing higher and higher until they finally came crashing down on the soaked andcrippled boat with an unearthly roar like the laughter of some terrible beast. It isbootless for me to render an account of the Baudelaire orphans clinging to oneanother in fear and desperation, certain that at any moment they would be draggedaway and tossed to their watery graves, while Count Olaf clung to the harpoon gunand the wooden figurehead, as if a terrible weapon and a deadly fungus were the onlythings he loved in the world, and it is of no earthly use to provide a report on thefront of the figurehead detaching from the boat with a deafening crackle, sending theBaudelaires spinning in one direction and Olaf spinning in the other, or the suddenjolt as the rest of the boat abruptly stopped spinning, and a horrible scraping soundcame from beneath the shuddering wood floor of the craft, as if a gigantic hand weregrabbing the remains of the Count Olaf from below, and holding the tremblingsiblings in its strong and steady grip. Certainly the Baudelaires did not find itnecessary to wonder what had happened now, after all those terrible, whirling hoursin the heart of the storm, but simply crawled together to a far corner of the boat, andhuddled against one another, too stunned to cry, as they listened to the sea ragearound them, and heard the frantic cries of Count Olaf, wondering if he were beingtorn limb from limb by the furious storm, or if he, too, had found some strange safety,and not knowing which fate they wished upon the man who had flung so muchmisfortune on the three of them. There is no need for me to describe this storm, as itwould only be another layer of this unfortunate onion of a story, and in any case bythe time the sun rose the next morning, the swirling black clouds were alreadyscurrying away from the bedraggled Baudelaires, and the air was silent and still, as ifthe whole evening had only been a ghastly nightmare.The children stood up unsteadily in their piece of the boat, their limbs aching fromclinging to one another all night, and tried to figure out where in the world they were,and how in the world they had survived. But as they gazed around at theirsurroundings, they could not answer these questions, as they had never seen anythingin the world like the sight that awaited them.At first, it appeared that the Baudelaire orphans were still in the middle of theocean, as all the children could see was a flat and wet landscape stretching out in alldirections, fading into the gray morning mist. But as they peered over the side of theirruined boat, the children saw that the water was not much deeper than a puddle, andthis enormous puddle was littered with detritus, a word which here means “all sortsof strange items.” There were large pieces of wood sticking out of the water likejagged teeth, and long lengths of rope tangled into damp and complicated knots.There were great heaps of seaweed, and thousands of fish wriggling and gaping at thesun as seabirds swooped down from the misty sky and helped themselves to aseafood breakfast. There were what looked like pieces of other boats—anchors andportholes, railings and masts, scattered every which way like broken toys—and otherobjects that might have been from the boats’ cargo, including shattered lanterns,smashed barrels, soaked documents, and the ripped remains of all sorts of clothing,from top hats to roller skates. There was an old-fashioned typewriter leaning againsta large, ornate bird cage, with a family of guppies wriggling through its keys. Therewas a large, brass cannon, with a large crab clawing its way out of the barrel, andthere was a hopelessly torn net caught in the blades of a propeller. It was as if thestorm had swept away the entire sea, leaving all of its contents scattered on the oceanfloor.“What is this place?” Violet said, in a hushed whisper. “What happened?”Klaus took his glasses out of his pocket, where he had put them for safekeeping,and was relieved to see they were unharmed. “I think we’re on a coastal shelf,” hesaid. “There are places in the sea where the water is suddenly very shallow, usuallynear land. The storm must have thrown our boat onto the shelf, along with all thisother wreckage.”“Land?” Sunny asked, holding her tiny hand over her eyes so she might seefarther. “Don’t see.”Klaus stepped carefully over the side of the boat. The dark water only came up tohis knees, and he began to walk around the boat in careful strides. “Coastal shelvesare usually much smaller than this,” he said, “but there must be an island somewhereclose by. Let’s look for it.”Violet followed her brother out of the boat, carrying her sister, who was still quiteshort. “Which direction do you think we should go?” she asked. “We don’t want toget lost.”Sunny gave her siblings a small smile. “Already lost,” she pointed out.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “Even if we had a compass, we don’t know where weare or where we are going. We might as well head in any direction at all.”“Then I vote we head west,” Violet said, pointing in the opposite direction of therising sun. “If we’re going to be walking for a while, we don’t want the sun in oureyes.”“Unless we find our concierge sunglasses,” Klaus said. “The storm blew themaway, but they might have landed on the same shelf.”“We could find anything here,” Violet said, and the Baudelaires had walked only afew steps before they saw this was so, for floating in the water was one piece ofdetritus they wished had blown away from them forever. Floating in a particularlyfilthy part of the water, stretched out flat on his back with his harpoon gun leaningacross one shoulder, was Count Olaf. The villain’s eyes were closed underneath hisone eyebrow, and he did not move. In all their miserable times with the count, theBaudelaires had never seen Olaf look so calm.“I guess we didn’t need to throw him overboard,” Violet said. “The storm did it forus.”Klaus leaned down to peer closer to Olaf, but the villain still did not stir. “It musthave been terrible,” he said, “to try and ride out the storm with no kind of shelterwhatsoever.”“Kikbucit?” Sunny asked, but at that moment Count Olaf’s eyes opened and theyoungest Baudelaire’s question was answered. Frowning, the villain moved his eyesin one direction and then the other.“Where am I?” he muttered, spitting a piece of seaweed out of his mouth.“Where’s my figurehead?”“Coastal shelf,” Sunny replied.At the sound of Sunny’s voice, Count Olaf blinked and sat up, glaring at thechildren and shaking water out of his ears. “Get me some coffee, orphans!” heordered. “I had a very unpleasant evening, and I’d like a nice, hearty breakfast beforedeciding what to do with you.”“There’s no coffee here,” Violet said, although there was in fact an espressomachine about twenty feet away. “We’re walking west, in the hopes of finding anisland.”“You’ll walk where I tell you to walk,” Olaf growled. “Are you forgetting that I’mthe captain of this boat?”“The boat is stuck in the sand,” Klaus said. “It’s quite damaged.”“Well, you’re still my hench people,” the villain said, “and my orders are that wewalk west, in the hopes of finding an island. I’ve heard about islands in the distantparts of the sea. The primitive inhabitants have never seen civilized people, so theywill probably revere me as a god.” The Baudelaires looked at one another and sighed.“‘Revere” is a word which here means “praise highly, and have a great deal ofrespect for,” and there was no person the children revered less than the dreadful manwho was standing before them, picking his teeth with a bit of seashell and referring topeople who lived in a certain region of the world as “primitive.” Yet it seemed that nomatter where the Baudelaires traveled, there were people either so greedy that theyrespected and praised Olaf for his evil ways, or so foolish that they didn’t notice howdreadful he really was. It was enough to make the children want to abandon Olafthere on the coastal shelf, but it is difficult to abandon someone in a place whereeverything is already abandoned, and so the three orphans and the one villain trudgedtogether westward across the cluttered coastal shelf in silence, wondering what wasin store for them. Count Olaf led the way, balancing the harpoon gun on oneshoulder, and interrupting the silence every so often to demand coffee, fresh juice,and other equally unobtainable breakfast items. Violet walked behind him, using abroken banister she found as a walking stick and poking at interesting mechanicalscraps she found in the muck, and Klaus walked alongside his sister, jotting theoccasional note in his commonplace book. Sunny climbed on top of Violet’sshoulders to serve as a sort of lookout, and it was the youngest Baudelaire who brokethe silence with a triumphant cry.“Land ho!” she cried, pointing into the mist, and the three Baudelaires could seethe faint shape of an island rising out of the shelf. The island looked narrow and long,like a freight train, and if they squinted they could see clusters of trees and whatlooked like enormous sheets of white cloth billowing in the wind.“I’ve discovered an island!” Count Olaf cackled. “I’m going to name it OlafLand!”“You didn’t discover the island,” Violet pointed out. “It appears that peoplealready live on it.”“And I am their king!” Count Olaf proclaimed. “Hurry up, orphans! My royalsubjects are going to cook me a big breakfast, and if I’m in a good mood I might letyou lick the plates!”The Baudelaires had no intention of licking the plates of Olaf or anyone else, butnevertheless they continued walking toward the island, maneuvering around thewreckage that still littered the surface of the shelf. They had just walked around agrand piano, which was sticking straight out of the water as if it had fallen from thesky, when something caught the Baudelaire eyes—a tiny white figure, scurryingtoward them.“What?” Sunny asked. “Who?”“It might be another survivor of the storm,” Klaus said. “Our boat couldn’t havebeen the only one in this area of the ocean.”“Do you think the storm reached Kit Snicket?” Violet asked.“Or the triplets?” Sunny said.Count Olaf scowled, and put one muddy finger on the trigger of the harpoon gun.“If that’s Kit Snicket or some bratty orphan,” he said, “I’ll harpoon her right whereshe stands. No ridiculous volunteer is going to take my island away from me!”“You don’t want to waste your last harpoon,” Violet said, thinking quickly. “Whoknows where you’ll find another one?”“That’s true,” Olaf admitted. “You’re becoming an excellent henchwoman.”“Poppycock,” growled Sunny, baring her teeth at the count.“My sister’s right,” Klaus said. “It’s ridiculous to argue about volunteers andhench-people when we’re standing on a coastal shelf in the middle of the ocean.”“Don’t be so sure, orphan,” Olaf replied. “No matter where we are, there’s alwaysroom for someone like me.” He leaned down close to give Klaus a sneaky smile, as ifhe were telling a joke. “Haven’t you learned that by now?”It was an unpleasant question, but the Baudelaires did not have time to answer it,as the figure drew closer and closer until the children could see it was a young girl,perhaps six or seven years old. She was barefoot, and dressed in a simple, white robethat was so clean she could not have been in the storm. Hanging from the girl’s beltwas a large white seashell, and she was wearing a pair of sunglasses that looked verymuch like the ones the Baudelaires had worn as concierges. She was grinning fromear to ear, but when she reached the Baudelaires, panting from her long run, shesuddenly looked shy, and although the Baudelaires were quite curious as to who shewas, they also found themselves keeping silent. Even Olaf did not speak, and merelyadmired his reflection in the water.When you find yourself tongue-tied in front of someone you do not know, youmight want to remember something the Baudelaires’ mother told them long ago, andsomething she told me even longer ago. I can see her now, sitting on a small couchshe used to keep in the corner of her bedroom, adjusting the straps of her sandals withone hand and munching on an apple with the other, telling me not to worry about theparty that was beginning downstairs. “People love to talk about themselves, Mr.Snicket,” she said to me, between bites of apple. “If you find yourself wonderingwhat to say to any of the guests, ask them which secret code they prefer, or find outwhom they’ve been spying on lately.” Violet, too, could almost hear her mother’svoice as she gazed down at this young girl, and decided to ask her something aboutherself.“What’s your name?” Violet asked.The girl fiddled with her seashell, and then looked up at the eldest Baudelaire.“Friday,” she said.“Do you live on the island, Friday?” Violet asked.“Yes,” the girl said. “I got up early this morning to go storm scavenging.”“Storm scavawha?” Sunny asked, from Violet’s shoulders.“Every time there’s a storm, everyone in the colony gathers everything that’scollected on the coastal shelf,” Friday said. “One never knows when one of theseitems will come in handy. Are you castaways?”“I guess we are,” Violet said. “We were traveling by boat when we got caught inthe storm. I’m Violet Baudelaire, and this is my brother, Klaus, and my sister,Sunny.” She turned reluctantly to Olaf, who was glaring at Friday suspiciously. “Andthis is—”“I am your king!” Olaf announced in a grand voice. “Bow before me, Friday!”“No, thank you,” Friday said politely. “Our colony is not a monarchy. You must beexhausted from the storm, Baudelaires. It looked so enormous from shore that wedidn’t think there’d be any castaways this time. Why don’t you come with me, andyou can have something to eat?”“We’d be most grateful,” Klaus said. “Do castaways arrive on this island veryoften?”“From time to time,” Friday said, with a small shrug. “It seems that everythingeventually washes up on our shores.”“The shores of Olaf-Land, you mean,” Count Olaf growled. “I discovered theisland, so I get to name it.”Friday peered at Olaf curiously from behind her sunglasses. “You must beconfused, sir, after your journey through the storm,” she said. “People have lived onthe island for many, many years.”“Primitive people,” sneered the villain. “I don’t even see any houses on theisland.”“We live in tents,” Friday said, pointing at the billowing white cloths on the island.“We grew tired of building houses that would only get blown away during the stormyseason, and the rest of the time the weather is so hot that we appreciate the ventilationthat a tent provides.”“I still say you’re primitive,” Olaf insisted, “and I don’t listen to primitive people.”“I won’t force you,” Friday said. “Come along with me and you can decide foryourself.”“I’m not going to come along with you,” Count Olaf said, “and neither are myhench people! I’m Count Olaf, and I’m in charge around here, not some little idiot ina robe!”“There’s no reason to be insulting,” Friday said. “The island is the only place youcan go, Count Olaf, so it really doesn’t matter who’s in charge.”Count Olaf gave Friday a terrible scowl, and he pointed his harpoon gun straight atthe young girl. “If you don’t bow before me, Friday, I’ll fire this harpoon gun atyou!”The Baudelaires gasped, but Friday merely frowned at the villain. “In a fewminutes,” she said, “all the inhabitants of the island will be out storm scavenging.They’ll see any act of violence you commit, and you won’t be allowed on the island.Please point that weapon away from me.”Count Olaf opened his mouth as if to say something, but after a moment he shut itagain, and lowered the harpoon gun sheepishly, a word which here means “lookingquite embarrassed to be following the orders of a young girl.”“Baudelaires, please come with me,” Friday said, and began to lead the waytoward the distant island.“What about me?” Count Olaf asked. His voice was a little squeaky, and itreminded the Baudelaires of other voices they had heard, from people who werefrightened of Olaf himself. They had heard this voice from guardians of theirs, andfrom Mr. Poe when the villain would confront him. It was a tone of voice they hadheard from various volunteers when discussing Olaf’s activities, and even from hishenchmen when they complained about their wicked boss. It was a tone of voice theBaudelaires had heard from themselves, during the countless times the dreadful manhad threatened them, and promised to get his hands on their fortune, but the childrennever thought they would hear it from Count Olaf himself. “What about me?” heasked again, but the siblings had already followed Friday a short way from where hewas standing, and when the Baudelaire orphans turned to him, Olaf looked like justanother piece of detritus that the storm had blown onto the coastal shelf.“Go away,” Friday said firmly, and the castaways wondered if finally they hadfound a place where there was no room for Count Olaf.CHAPTERThreeAs I’m sure you know, there are many words in our mysterious and confusinglanguage that can mean two completely different things. The word “bear,” forinstance, can refer to a rather husky mammal found in the woods, as in the sentence“The bear moved quietly toward the camp counselor, who was too busy putting onlipstick to notice,” but it can also refer to how much someone can handle, as in thesentence “The loss of my camp counselor is more than I can bear.” The word “yarn”can refer both to a colorful strand of wool, as in the sentence “His sweater was madeof yarn,” and to a long and rambling story, as in the sentence “His yarn about how helost his sweater almost put me to sleep.” The word “hard” can refer both tosomething that is difficult and something that is firm to the touch, and unless youcome across a sentence like “The bears bear hard hard yarn yarns” you are unlikely tobe confused. But as the Baudelaire orphans followed Friday across the coastal shelftoward the island where she lived, they experienced both definitions of the word“cordial,” which can refer both to a person who is friendly and to a drink that issweet, and the more they had of one the more they were confused about the other.“Perhaps you would care for some coconut cordial,” Friday said, in a cordial toneof voice, and she reached down to the seashell that hung around her neck. With oneslim finger she plucked out a stopper, and the children could see that the shell hadbeen fashioned into a sort of canteen. “You must be thirsty from your journeythrough the storm.”“We are thirsty,” Violet admitted, “but isn’t fresh water better for thirst?”“There’s no fresh water on the island,” Friday said. “There’s some saltwater fallsthat we use for washing, and a saltwater pool that’s perfect for swimming. But all wedrink is coconut cordial. We drain the milk from coconuts and allow it to ferment.”“Ferment?” Sunny asked.“Friday means that the coconut milk sits around for some time, and undergoes achemical process making it sweeter and stronger,” Klaus explained, having learnedabout fermentation in a book about a vineyard his parents had kept in the Baudelairelibrary.“The sweetness will wash away the taste of the storm,” Friday said, and passed theseashell to the three children. One by one they each took a sip of the cordial. AsFriday had said, the cordial was quite sweet, but there was another taste beyond thesweetness, something odd and strong that made them a bit dizzy. Violet and Klausboth winced as the cordial slipped thickly down their throats, and Sunny coughed assoon as the first drop reached her tongue.“It’s a little strong for us, Friday,” Violet said, handing the seashell back to Friday.“You’ll get used to it,” Friday said with a smile, “when you drink it at every meal.That’s one of the customs here.”“I see,” Klaus said, making a note in his commonplace book. “What other customsdo you have here?”“Not too many,” Friday said, looking first at Klaus’s notebook and then aroundher, where the Baudelaires could see the distant figures of other islanders, all dressedin white, walking around the costal shelf and poking at the wreckage they found.“Every time there’s a storm, we go storm scavenging and present what we’ve foundto a man named Ishmael. Ishmael has been on this island longer than any of us, andhe injured his feet some time ago and keeps them covered in island clay, which hashealing powers. Ishmael can’t even stand, but he serves as the island’s facilitator.”“Demarc?” Sunny asked Klaus.“A facilitator is someone who helps other people make decisions,” the middleBaudelaire explained.Friday nodded in agreement. “Ishmael decides what detritus might be of use to us,and what the sheep should drag away.”“There are sheep on the island?” Violet asked.“A herd of wild sheep washed up on our shores many, many years ago,” Fridaysaid, “and they roam free, except when they’re needed to drag our scavenged items tothe arboretum, on the far side of the island over that brae over there.”“Brae?” Sunny asked.“A brae is a steep hill,” Klaus said, “and an arboretum is a place where treesgrow.”“All that grows in the island’s arboretum is one enormous apple tree,” Friday said,“or at least, that’s what I’ve heard.”“You’ve never been to the far side of the island?” Violet asked.“No one goes to the far side of the island,” Friday said. “Ishmael says it’s toodangerous with all the items the sheep have brought there. Nobody even picks thebitter apples from the tree, except on Decision Day.”“Holiday?” Sunny asked.“I guess it’s something of a holiday,” Friday said. “Once a year, the tides turn inthis part of the ocean, and the coastal shelf is completely covered in water. It’s the onetime a year that it’s deep enough to sail away from the island. All year long we build anenormous outrigger, which is a type of canoe, and the day the tides turn we have a feastand a talent show. Then anyone who wishes to leave our colony indicates their decision bytaking a bite of bitter apple and spitting it onto the ground before boarding the outriggerand bidding us farewell.”“Yuck,” the youngest Baudelaire said, imagining a crowd of people spitting upapple.“There’s nothing yucky about it,” Friday said with a frown. “It’s the colony’s mostimportant custom.”“I’m sure it’s wonderful,” Violet said, reminding her sister with a stern glance thatit is not polite to insult the customs of others.A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEnd“It is,” Friday said. “Of course, people rarely leave this island. No one has leftsince before I was born, so each year we simply light the outrigger on fire, and pushit out to sea. Watching a burning outrigger slowly vanish on the horizon is a beautifulsight.”“It sounds beautiful,” Klaus said, although the middle Baudelaire thought itsounded more creepy than beautiful, “but it seems a waste to build a canoe every yearonly to burn it up.”“It gives us something to do,” Friday said with a shrug. “Besides building theoutrigger, there’s not much to occupy us on the island. We catch fish, and cook meals,and do the laundry, but that still leaves much of the day unoccupied.”“Cook?” Sunny asked eagerly.“My sister is something of a chef,” Klaus said. “I’m sure she’d be happy to helpwith the cooking.”Friday smiled, and put her hands in the deep pockets of her robe. “I’ll keep that inmind,” she said. “Are you sure you don’t want another sip of cordial?”All three Baudelaires shook their heads. “No, thank you,” Violet said, “but it’skind of you to offer.”“Ishmael says that everyone should be treated with kindness,” Friday said, “unlessthey are unkind themselves. That’s why I left that horrible man Count Olaf behind.Were you traveling with him?”The Baudelaires looked at one another, unsure of how to answer this question. Onone hand, Friday seemed very cordial, but like the cordial she offered, there wassomething else besides sweetness in her description of the island. The colony’scustoms sounded very strict, and although the siblings were relieved to be out ofCount Olaf’s company, there seemed something cruel about abandoning Olaf on thecoastal shelf, even though he certainly would have done the same to the orphans ifhe’d had the opportunity. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were not sure how Friday wouldreact if they admitted being in the villain’s company, and they did not reply for amoment, until the middle Baudelaire remembered an expression he had read in anovel about people who were very, very polite.“It depends on how you look at it,” Klaus said, using a phrase which sounds likean answer but scarcely means anything at all. Friday gave him a curious look, but thechildren had reached the end of the coastal shelf and were standing at the edge of theisland. It was a sloping beach with sand so white that Friday’s white robe lookedalmost invisible, and at the top of the slope was an outrigger, fashioned from wildgrasses and the limbs of trees, which looked nearly finished, as if Decision Day wasarriving soon. Past the outrigger was an enormous white tent, as long as a school bus.The Baudelaires followed Friday inside the tent, and found to their surprise that itwas filled with sheep, who all lay dozing on the ground. The sheep appeared to betied together with thick, frayed rope, and towering over the sheep was an old mansmiling at the Baudelaires through a beard as thick and wild as the sheep’s woollycoats. He sat in an enormous chair that looked as if it were fashioned out of whiteclay, and two more piles of clay rose up where his feet should have been. He waswearing a robe like Friday’s and had a similar seashell hanging from his belt, and hisvoice was as cordial as Friday’s as he smiled down at the three siblings.“What have we here?” he said.“I found three castaways on the coastal shelf,” Friday said proudly.“Welcome, castaways,” Ishmael said. “Forgive me for remaining seated, but myfeet are quite sore today, so I’m making use of our healing clay. It’s very nice to meetyou.”“It’s nice to meet you, Ishmael,” said Violet, who thought healing clay was ofdubious scientific efficacy, a phrase which here means “unlikely to heal sore feet.”“Call me Ish,” said Ishmael, leaning down to scratch the heads of one of the sheep.“And what shall I call you?”“Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire,” Friday chimed in, before the siblings couldintroduce themselves.“Baudelaire?” Ishmael repeated, and raised his eyebrows. He gazed at the threechildren in silence as he took a long sip of cordial from his seashell, and for just onemoment his smile seemed to disappear. But then he gazed down at the siblings andgrinned heartily. “We haven’t had new islanders in quite some time. You’re welcometo stay as long as you’d like, unless you’re unkind, of course.”“Thank you,” Klaus said, as kindly as he could. “Friday has told us a few thingsabout the island. It sounds quite interesting.”“It depends on how you look at it,” Ishmael said. “Even if you want to leave,you’ll only have the opportunity once a year. In the meantime, Friday, why don’t youshow them to a tent, so they can change their clothes? We should have some newwoolen robes that fit you nicely.”“We would appreciate that,” Violet said. “Our concierge uniforms are quite soakedfrom the storm.”“I’m sure they are,” Ishmael said, twisting a strand of beard in his fingers.“Besides, our custom is to wear nothing but white, to match the sand of the islands,the healing clay of the pool, and the wool of the wild sheep. Friday, I’m surprised youare choosing to break with tradition.”Friday blushed, and her hand rose to the sunglasses she was wearing. “I foundthese in the wreckage,” she said. “The sun is so bright on the island, I thought theymight come in handy.”“I won’t force you,” Ishmael said calmly, “but it seems to me you might prefer todress according to custom, rather than showing off your new eyewear.”“You’re right, Ishmael,” Friday said quietly, and removed her sunglasses with onehand while the other hand darted into one of her robe’s deep pockets.“That’s better,” Ishmael said, and smiled at the Baudelaires. “I hope you will enjoyliving on this island,” he said. “We’re all castaways here, from one storm or another,and rather than trying to return to the world, we’ve built a colony safe from theworld’s treachery.”“There was a treacherous person with them,” Friday piped up eagerly. “His namewas Count Olaf, but he was so nasty that I didn’t let him come with us.”“Olaf?” Ishmael said, and his eyebrows raised again. “Is this man a friend ofyours?”“Fat chance,” Sunny said.“No, he isn’t,” Violet translated quickly. “To tell you the truth, we’ve been tryingto escape from Count Olaf for quite some time.”“He’s a dreadful man,” Klaus said.“Same boat,” Sunny said.“Hmmm,” Ishmael said thoughtfully. “Is that the whole story, Baudelaires?”The children looked at one another. Of course, the few sentences they’d utteredwere not the whole story. There was much, much more to the story of the Baudelairesand Count Olaf, and if the children had recited all of it Ishmael probably would havewept until the tears melted away the clay so his feet were bare and he had nothing tosit on. The Baudelaires could have told the island’s facilitator about all of CountOlaf’s schemes, from his vicious murder of Uncle Monty to his betrayal of MadameLulu at the Caligari Carnival. They could have told him about his disguises, from hisfalse peg leg when he was pretending to be Captain Sham, to his running shoes andturban when he was calling himself Coach Genghis. They could have told Ishmaelabout Olaf’s many comrades, from his girlfriend Esmé Squalor to the two whitefaced women who had disappeared in the Mortmain Mountains, and they could havetold Ishmael about all of the unsolved mysteries that still kept the Baudelaires awakeat night, from the disappearance of Captain Widdershins from an underwater cavernto the strange taxi driver who had approached the children outside the HotelDenouement, and of course they could have told Ishmael about that ghastly day atBriny Beach, when they first heard the news of their parents’ deaths. But if theBaudelaires had told Ishmael the whole story, they would have had to tell the partsthat put the Baudelaires in an unfavorable light, a phrase which here means “thethings the Baudelaires had done that were perhaps as treacherous as Olaf.” Theywould have talked about their own schemes, from digging a pit to trap Esmé tostarting the fire that destroyed the Hotel Denouement. They would have mentionedtheir own disguises, from Sunny pretending to be Chabo the Wolf Baby to Violet andKlaus pretending to be Snow Scouts, and their own comrades, from Justice Strauss,who turned out to be more useful than they had first thought, to Fiona, who turnedout to be more treacherous than they had imagined. If the Baudelaire orphans hadtold Ishmael the whole story, they might have looked as villainous as Count Olaf.The Baudelaires did not want to find themselves back on the coastal shelf, with allthe detritus of the storm. They wanted to be safe from treachery and harm, even if thecustoms of the island colony were not exactly to their liking, and so, rather thantelling Ishmael the whole story, the Baudelaires merely nodded, and said the safestthing they could think of.“It depends on how you look at it,” Violet said, and her siblings nodded inagreement.“Very well,” Ishmael said. “Run along and find your robes, and once you’vechanged, please give all of your old things to Friday and we’ll haul them off to thearboretum.”“Everything?” Klaus said.Ishmael nodded. “That’s our custom.”“Occulaklaus?” Sunny asked, and her siblings quickly explained that she meantsomething like, “What about Klaus’s glasses?”“He can scarcely read without them,” Violet added.Ishmael raised his eyebrows again. “Well, there’s no library here,” he said quickly,with a nervous glance at Friday, “but I suppose your eyeglasses are of some use.Now, hurry along, Baudelaires, unless you’d like a sip of cordial before you go.”“No, thank you,” Klaus said, wondering how many times he and his siblingswould be offered this strange, sweet beverage. “My siblings and I tried some, anddidn’t care much for the taste.”“I won’t force you,” Ishmael said again, “but your initial opinion on just aboutanything may change over time. See you soon, Baudelaires.”He gave them a small wave, and the Baudelaires waved back as Friday led themout of the tent and farther uphill where more tents were fluttering in the morningbreeze.“Choose any tent you like,” Friday said. “We all switch tents each day—except forIshmael, because of his feet.”“Isn’t it confusing to sleep in a different place each night?” Violet asked.“It depends on how you look at it,” Friday said, taking a sip from her seashell.“I’ve never slept any other way.”“Have you lived your whole life on this island?” Klaus said.“Yes,” Friday said. “My mother and father took an ocean cruise while she waspregnant, and ran into a terrible storm. My father was devoured by a manatee, andmy mother was washed ashore when she was pregnant with me. You’ll meet hersoon. Now please hurry up and change.”“Prompt,” Sunny assured her, and Friday took her hand out of her pocket andshook Sunny’s.The Baudelaires walked into the nearest tent, where a pile of robes lay folded inone corner. In moments, they changed into their new clothes, happy to discard theirconcierge uniforms, which were soaked and salty from the night’s storm. When theywere finished, however, they stood and stared for a moment at the pile of dampclothing. The Baudelaires felt strange to don the garments of shibboleth, a phrasewhich here means “wear the warm and somewhat unflattering clothing that wascustomary to people they hardly knew.” It felt as if the three siblings were castingaway everything that had happened to them prior to their arrival on the island. Theirclothing, of course, was not the Baudelaires’ whole story, as clothing is neveranyone’s whole story, except perhaps in the case of Esmé Squalor, whose villainousand fashionable clothing revealed just how villainous and fashionable she was. Butthe Baudelaires could not help but feel that they were abandoning their previouslives, in favor of new lives on an island of strange customs.“I won’t throw away this ribbon,” Violet said, winding the slender piece of cloththrough her fingertips. “I’m still going to invent things, no matter what Ishmaelsays.”“I’m not throwing away my commonplace book,” Klaus said, holding the darkblue notebook. “I’ll still research things, even if there’s no library here.”“No throw this,” Sunny said, and held up a small metal implement so her siblingscould see. One end was a small, simple handle, perfect for Sunny’s petite hands, andthe other end branched into several sturdy wires that were meshed together like asmall shrubbery.“What is that?” Violet asked.“Whisk,” Sunny said, and she was exactly right. A whisk is a kitchen tool used tomix ingredients together rapidly, and the youngest Baudelaire was happy to havesuch a useful item in her possession.“Yes,” Klaus said. “I remember our father used to use it when he preparedscrambled eggs. But where did it come from?”“Gal Friday,” Sunny said.“She knows Sunny can cook,” Violet said, “but she must have thought Ishmaelwould make her throw the whisk away.”“I guess she’s not so eager to follow all of the colony’s customs,” Klaus said.“Guesso,” Sunny agreed, and put the whisk in one of her robe’s deep pockets.Klaus did the same with his commonplace book, and Violet did the same with herribbon, and the three of them stood together for a moment, sharing their pocketedsecrets. It felt strange to be keeping secrets from people who had taken them in sokindly, just as it felt strange not to tell Ishmael their whole story. The secrets of theribbon, the commonplace book, and the whisk felt submerged, a word for “hidden”that usually applies to things underwater, such as a submarine submerged in the sea,or a boat’s figurehead submerged in a coastal shelf, and with each step theBaudelaires took out of the tent, they felt their submerged secrets bumping up againstthem from within the pockets of their robes.The word “ferment,” like the words “bear,” “yarn,” and “hard,” can mean twocompletely different things. One meaning is the chemical process by which the juiceof certain fruits becomes sweeter and stronger, as Klaus explained to his siblings onthe coastal shelf. But the other meaning of “ferment” refers to something buildinginside someone, like a secret that may be eventually found out, or a scheme thatsomeone has been planning for quite some time. As the three Baudelaires exited thetent, and handed the detritus of their previous lives to Friday, they felt their ownsecrets fermenting inside them, and wondered what other secrets and schemes layundiscovered. The Baudelaire orphans followed Friday back down the sloping beach,and wondered what else was fermenting on this strange island that was their newhome.CHAPTERFourBy the time the Baudelaire orphans returned to Ishmael’s tent, the joint washopping, a phrase which here means “full of islanders in white robes, all holdingitems they had scavenged from the coastal shelf.” The sheep were no longer nappingbut standing stiffly in two long lines, and the ropes tying them together led to a largewooden sleigh—an unusual form of transportation in such warm weather. Friday ledthe children through the colonists and sheep, who stepped aside and looked curiouslyat the three new castaways. Although this was the first time that the Baudelaires werecastaways, they were accustomed to being strangers in a community, from their daysat Prufrock Preparatory School to their time spent in the Village of Fowl Devotees,but they still did not enjoy being stared at. But it is one of the strange truths of lifethat practically nobody likes to be stared at and that practically nobody can stopthemselves from staring, and as the three children made their way toward Ishmael,who was still sitting on his enormous clay chair, the Baudelaires could not helplooking back at the islanders with the same curiosity, wondering how so many peoplecould become castaways on the same island. It was as if the world was full of peoplewith lives as unfortunate as that of the Baudelaires, all ending up in the very sameplace.Friday led the Baudelaires to the base of Ishmael’s chair, and the facilitator smileddown at the children as they sat at his clay-covered feet. “Those white robes lookvery handsome on you Baudelaires,” he said. “Much better than those uniforms youwere wearing earlier. You’re going to be wonderful colonists, I am sure of it.”“Pyrrhonic?” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “How canyou be sure of such a thing based on our clothing?” But rather than translate, Violetremembered that the colony valued kindness and decided to say something kind.“I can’t tell you how much we appreciate this,” Violet said, careful not to leanagainst the mounds of clay that hid Ishmael’s toes. “We didn’t know what wouldhappen to us after the storm, and we’re grateful to you, Ishmael, for taking us in.”“Everyone is taken in here,” Ishmael said, apparently forgetting that Count Olafhad been abandoned. “And please, call me Ish. Would you like some cordial?”“No, thank you,” said Klaus, who could not bring himself to call the facilitator byhis nickname. “We’d like to meet the other colonists, if that’s all right.”“Of course,” Ishmael said, and clapped his hands for attention. “Islanders!” hecried. “As I’m sure you’ve noticed, we have three new castaways with us today—Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, the only survivors of that terrible storm. I’m not going toforce you, but as you bring up your storm scavenging items for my suggestions, whydon’t you introduce yourselves to our new colonists?”“Good idea, Ishmael,” said someone from the back of the tent.“Call me Ish,” said Ishmael, stroking his beard. “Now then, who’s first?”“I suppose I am,” said a pleasant-looking man who was holding what looked like alarge, metal flower. “It’s nice to meet you three. My name is Alonso, and I’ve foundthe propeller of an airplane. The poor pilot must have flown straight into the storm.”“What a shame,” Ishmael said. “Well, there’s no airplane to be found on the island,so I don’t think a propeller will be of much use.”“Excuse me,” Violet said hesitantly, “but I know something about mechanicaldevices. If we rigged the propeller up to a simple hand-powered motor, we’d have aperfect fan for keeping cool on particularly hot days.”There was a murmur of appreciation from the crowd, and Alonso smiled at Violet.“It does get mighty hot around here,” he said. “That’s a good idea.”Ishmael took a sip of cordial from his seashell, and then frowned at the propeller.“It depends on how you look at it,” he said. “If we only made one fan, then we’d allbe arguing over who got to stand in front of it.”“We could take turns,” Alonso said.“Whose turn will it be on the hottest day of the year?” Ishmael countered, a wordwhich here means “said in a firm and sensible tone of voice, even though it was notnecessarily a sensible thing to say.” “I’m not going to force you, Alonso, but I don’tthink building a fan is worth all the fuss it might cause.”“I suppose you’re right,” Alonso said, with a shrug, and put the propeller on thewooden sleigh. “The sheep can take it to the arboretum.”“An excellent decision,” Ishmael said, as a girl perhaps one or two years older thanViolet stepped forward.“I’m Ariel,” she said, “and I found this in a particularly shallow part of the shelf. Ithink it’s a dagger.”“A dagger?” Ishmael said. “You know we don’t welcome weapons on the island.”Klaus was peering at the item Ariel was holding, which was made of carved woodrather than metal. “I don’t think that’s a dagger,” Klaus said. “I believe it’s an old toolused for cutting the pages of books. Nowadays most books are sold with their pagesalready separated, but some years ago each page was attached to the next, so youneeded an implement to slice open the folds of paper and read the book.”“That’s interesting,” Ariel remarked.“It depends on how you look at it,” Ishmael said. “I fail to see how it could be ofuse here. We’ve never had a single book wash ashore— the storms simply tear thepages apart.”Klaus reached into his pocket and touched his hidden commonplace book. “Younever know when a book might turn up,” he pointed out. “In my opinion, that toolmight be useful to keep around.”Ishmael sighed, looking first at Klaus and then at the girl who had found the item.“Well, I’m not going to force you, Ariel,” he said, “but if I were you I would toss thatsilly thing onto the sleigh.”“I’m sure you’re right,” Ariel said, shrugging at Klaus, and she put the page cutternext to the propeller as a plump man with a sunburned face stepped forward.“Sherman’s the name,” said Sherman, with a little bow to all three siblings. “And Ifound a cheese grater. I nearly lost a finger prying it away from a nest of crabs!”“You shouldn’t have gone to all that trouble,” Ishmael said. “We’re not going tohave much use for a cheese grater without any cheese.”“Grate coconut,” Sunny said. “Delicious cake.”“Cake?” Sherman said. “Egad, that would be delicious. We haven’t had dessertsince I’ve arrived here.”“Coconut cordial is sweeter than dessert,” Ishmael said, raising his seashell to hislips. “I certainly wouldn’t force you, Sherman, but I do think it would be best if thatgrater were thrown away.”Sherman took a sip from his own seashell, and then nodded, looking down at thesand. “Very well,” he said, and the rest of the morning proceeded in a similar manner.Islander after islander introduced themselves and presented the items they had found,and nearly every time the colony’s facilitator discouraged them from keepinganything. A bearded man named Robinson found a pair of overalls, but Ishmaelreminded him that the colony only wore the customary white robes, even thoughViolet could imagine herself wearing them while inventing some sort of mechanicaldevice, so as not to get her robe dirty. An old woman named Erewhon held up a pairof skis that Ishmael dismissed as impractical, although Klaus had read of people whohad used skis to cross mud and sand, and a red-haired woman named Weyden offereda salad spinner, but Ishmael reminded her that the island’s only salads were to bemade from the seaweed that was rinsed in the pool and dried out in the sun, ratherthan spun, even though Sunny could almost taste a dried coconut snack that such anappliance could have made. Ferdinand island to dump the items in the arboretum, andthe islanders excused themselves, at Ishmael’s suggestion, to wash their hands forlunch. Within moments the only occupants of the tent were Ishmael, the Baudelaireorphans, and the girl who had first brought them to the tent, as if the siblings weremerely another piece of wreckage to be picked over for approval.“Quite a storm, wasn’t it?” asked Ishmael, after a short silence. “We scavengedeven more junk than usual.”“Were any other castaways found?” Violet asked.“Do you mean Count Olaf?” Ishmael asked. “After Friday abandoned him, he’dnever dare approach the island. He’s either wandering around the coastal shelf, orhe’s trying to swim his way back to wherever he came from.”The Baudelaires looked at one another, knowing full well that Count Olaf waslikely hatching some scheme, particularly as none of the islanders had found theboat’s figurehead, where the deadly spores of the Medusoid Mycelium were hidden.“We weren’t just thinking of Olaf,” Klaus said. “We had some friends who may havebeen caught in the same storm— a pregnant woman named Kit Snicket who was in asubmarine with some associates, and a group of people who were traveling by air.”Ishmael frowned, and drank some cordial from his seashell. “Those people haven’tturned up,” he said, “but don’t despair, Baudelaires. It seems that everythingeventually washes up on our shores. Perhaps their crafts were unharmed by thestorm.”“Perhaps,” Sunny agreed, trying not to think that they might not have been aslucky as that.“They might turn up in the next day or so,” Ishmael continued. “Another storm isheading this way.”“How do you know?” Violet asked. “Is there a barometer on the island?”“There’s no barometer,” Ishmael said, referring to a device that measures thepressure in the atmosphere, which is one way of predicting the weather. “I just knowthere’s one coming.”“How would you know such a thing?” Klaus asked, stopping himself fromretrieving his commonplace book so he could take notes. “I’ve always heard that theweather is difficult to predict without advanced instruments.”“We don’t need any advanced instruments on this colony,” Ishmael said. “I predictthe weather by using magic.”“Meledrub,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of, “I find thatvery difficult to believe,” and her siblings silently agreed. The Baudelaires, as a rule,did not believe in magic, although their mother had had a nifty card trick she couldoccasionally be persuaded to perform. Like all people who have seen something ofthe world, the children had come across plenty of things they had been unable toexplain, from the diabolical hypnotism techniques of Dr. Orwell to the way a girlnamed Fiona had broken Klaus’s heart, but they had never been tempted to solvethese mysteries with a supernatural explanation like magic. Late at night, of course,when one is sitting upright in bed, having been woken up by a sudden loud noise, onebelieves in all sorts of supernatural things, but it was early afternoon, and theBaudelaires simply could not imagine that Ishmael was some sort of magicalweatherman. Their doubt must have shown on their faces, for the facilitatorimmediately did what many people do when they are not believed, and hurriedlychanged the subject.“What about you, Friday?” Ishmael asked. “Did you find anything else besides thecastaways and those awful sunglasses?”Friday looked quickly at Sunny, but then shook her head firmly. “No,” she said.“Then please go help your mother with lunch,” he said, “while I talk to our newcolonists.”“Do I have to?” Friday asked. “I’d rather stay here, with the Baudelaires.”“I’m not going to force you,” Ishmael said gently, “but I’m sure your mother coulduse some help.”Without another word, Friday turned and left the tent, walking up the slopingbeach toward the other tents of the colony, and the Baudelaires were alone with theirfacilitator, who leaned down to speak quietly to the orphans.“Baudelaires,” he said, “as your facilitator, allow me to give you a piece of advice,as you begin your stay on this island.”“What might that be?” Violet asked.Ishmael looked around the tent, as if spies were lurking behind the white,fluttering fabric. He took another sip from his seashell, and cracked his knuckles.“Don’t rock the boat,” he said, using an expression which here means “Don’t upsetpeople by doing something that is not customary.” His tone was very cordial, but thechildren could hear something less cordial almost hidden in his voice, the way acoastal shelf is almost hidden by water. “We’ve been living by our customs for quitesome time. Most of us can scarcely remember our lives before we became castaways,and there is a whole generation of islanders who have never lived anywhere else. Myadvice to you is not to ask so many questions or meddle around too much with ourcustoms. We have taken you in, Baudelaires, which is a kindness, and we expectkindness in return. If you keep prying into the affairs of the island, people are goingto think you’re unkind—just like Friday thought Olaf was unkind. So don’t rock theboat. After all, rocking the boat is what got you here in the first place.”Ishmael smiled at his little joke, and although they found nothing funny aboutpoking fun at a shipwreck that had nearly killed them, the children gave Ishmael anervous smile in return, and said no more. The tent was silent for a few minutes, untila pleasant-looking woman with a freckly face walked into the tent carrying anenormous clay jar.“You must be the Baudelaires,” she said, as Friday followed her into the tentcarrying a stack of bowls fashioned from coconut shells, “and you must be starving,too. I’m Mrs. Caliban, Friday’s mother, and I do most of the cooking around here.Why don’t you have some lunch?”“That would be wonderful,” Klaus said. “We’re quite hungry.”“Whatya fixin?” asked Sunny.Mrs. Caliban smiled, and opened the jar so the children could peek inside.“Ceviche,” she said. “It’s a South American dish of chopped raw seafood.”“Oh,” Violet said, with as much enthusiasm as she could muster. Ceviche is anacquired taste, a phrase which here means “something you don’t like the first fewtimes you eat it,” and although the Baudelaires had eaten ceviche before—theirmother used to make it in the Baudelaire kitchen, to celebrate the beginning of crabseason—it was none of the children’s favorite food, and not precisely what they hadin mind as a first meal after being shipwrecked. When I was shipwrecked recently,for instance, I had the fortune to wash aboard a barge where I enjoyed a late supper ofroast leg of lamb with creamed polenta and a fricassee of baby artichokes, followedby some aged Gouda served with roasted figs, and finished up with some freshstrawberries dipped in milk chocolate and crushed honeycomb, and I found this to bea wonderful antidote to being tossed like a rag doll in the turbulent waters of aparticularly stormy creek. But the Baudelaires accepted their bowls of ceviche, aswell as the strange utensils Friday handed them, which were made of wood andlooked like a combination of a fork and a spoon.“They’re runcible spoons,” Friday explained. “We don’t have forks or knives inthe colony, as they can be used as weapons.”“I suppose that’s sensible,” Klaus said, although he couldn’t help but think thatnearly anything could be used as a weapon, if one were in a weaponry mood.“I hope you like it,” Mrs. Caliban said. “There’s not much else you can cook withraw seafood.”“Negihama,” Sunny said.“My sister is something of a chef,” Violet explained, “and was suggesting that shecould prepare some Japanese dishes for the colony, if there were any wasabi to behad.”The younger Baudelaires gave their sister a brief nod, realizing that Violet wasasking about wasabi not only because it might allow Sunny to make somethingpalatable—a word which here means “that wasn’t ceviche”—but because wasabi,which is a sort of horseradish often used in Japanese food, was one of the fewdefenses against the Medusoid Mycelium, and with Count Olaf lurking about, shewanted to think about possible strategies should the deadly fungus be let loose fromthe helmet.“We don’t have any wasabi,” Mrs. Caliban said. “We don’t have any spices at all,in fact. No spices have washed up on the coastal shelf.”“Even if they did,” Ishmael added quickly, “I think we’d just throw them in thearboretum. The stomachs of the colonists are used to spice-less ceviche, and wewouldn’t want to rock the boat.”Klaus took a bite of ceviche from his runcible spoon, and grimaced at the taste.Traditionally a ceviche is marinated in spices, which gives it an unusual but oftendelicious flavor, but without such seasoning, Mrs. Caliban’s ceviche tasted likewhatever you might find in a fish’s mouth while it was eating. “Do you eat cevichefor every meal?” he asked.“Certainly not,” Mrs. Caliban said with a little laugh. “That would get tiresome,wouldn’t it? No, we only have ceviche for lunch. Every morning we have seaweedsalad for breakfast, and for dinner we have a mild onion soup served with a handfulof wild grass. You might get tired of such bland food, but it tastes better if you washit down with coconut cordial.” Friday’s mother reached into a deep pocket in herwhite robe, and brought out three large seashells that had been fashioned intocanteens, and handed one to each Baudelaire.“Let’s drink a toast,” Friday suggested, holding up her own seashell. Mrs. Calibanraised hers, and Ishmael wiggled in his clay chair and opened the stopper of hisseashell once more.“An excellent idea,” the facilitator said, with a wide, wide smile. “Let’s drink atoast to the Baudelaire orphans!”“To the Baudelaires!” agreed Mrs. Caliban, raising her seashell. “Welcome to theisland!”“I hope you stay here forever and ever!” Friday cried.The Baudelaires looked at the three islanders grinning at them, and tried their bestto grin back, although they had so much on their minds that their grins were not veryenthusiastic. The Baudelaires wondered if they really had to eat spiceless ceviche, notonly for this particular lunch, but for future lunches on the island. The Baudelaireswondered if they had to drink more of the coconut cordial, and if refusing to do sowould be considered rocking the boat. They wondered why the figurehead of the boathad not been found, and they wondered where Count Olaf was, and what he was upto, and they wondered about their friends and associates who were somewhere at sea,and about all of the people they had left behind in the Hotel Denouement. But at thismoment, the Baudelaires wondered one thing most of all, and that was why Ishmaelhad called them orphans, when they hadn’t told him their whole story. Violet, Klaus,and Sunny looked first at their bowls of ceviche, and then at Friday and her mother,and then at their seashells, and finally up at Ishmael, who was smiling down at themfrom his enormous chair, and the castaways wondered if they really had reached aplace that was far from the world’s treachery or if the world’s treachery was justhidden someplace, the way Count Olaf was hidden somewhere very nearby at thatvery moment. They looked up at their facilitator, uncertain if they were safe after all,and wondering what they could do about it if they weren’t.“I won’t force you,” Ishmael said quietly to the children, and the Baudelaireorphans wondered if that were true after all.CHAPTERFiveUnless you are unusually insouciant—which is merely a fancy way of saying “theopposite of curious”—or one of the Baudelaire orphans yourself, you are probablywondering whether or not the three children drank the coconut cordial that wasoffered them rather forcefully by Ishmael.Perhaps you have been in situations yourself, where you have been offered abeverage or food you would rather not consume by someone you would rather notrefuse, or perhaps you have been warned about people who will offer such things andtold to avoid succumbing, a word which here means “accepting, rather than refusing,what you are given.” Such situations are often referred to as incidents of “peerpressure,” as “peer” is a word for someone with whom you are associating and“pressure” is a word for the influence such people often have. If you are a braeman orbrae-woman—a term for someone who lives all alone on a hill—then peer pressure isfairly easy to avoid, as you have no peers except for the occasional your cave and tryto pressure you into growing a woolly coat. But if you live among people, whetherthey are people in your family, in your school, or in your secret organization, thenevery moment of your life is an incident of peer pressure, and you cannot avoid it anymore than a boat at sea can avoid a surrounding storm. If you wake up in the morningat a particular time, when you would rather hide your head under your pillow untilyou are too hungry to stand it any longer, then you are succumbing to the peerpressure of your warden or morning butler. If you eat a breakfast that someoneprepares for you, or prepare your own breakfast from food you have purchased, whenyou would rather stomp your feet and demand delicacies from faraway lands, thenyou are succumbing to the peer pressure of your grocer or breakfast chef. All daylong, everyone in the world is succumbing to peer pressure, whether it is the pressureof their fourth grade peers to play dodge ball during recess or the pressure of theirfellow circus performers to balance rubber balls on their noses, and if you try toavoid every instance of peer pressure you will end up without any peers whatsoever,and the trick is to succumb to enough pressure that you do not drive your peers away,but not so much that you end up in a situation in which you are dead or otherwiseuncomfortable. This is a difficult trick, and most people never master it, and end updead or uncomfortable at least once during their lives.The Baudelaire orphans had been uncomfortable more than enough times over thecourse of their misadventures, and having found themselves on a distant island withonly one set of peers to choose from, they succumbed to the pressure of Ishmael, andFriday, and Mrs. Caliban, and all of the other islanders who lived with the children intheir new home. They sat in Ishmael’s tent, and drank a bit of coconut cordial as theyate their lunch of spice-free ceviche, even though the drink left them feeling a bitdizzy and the food left them feeling a bit slimy, rather than leaving the colony andfinding their own food and drink. They wore their white robes, even though theywere a bit heavy for the warm weather, rather than trying to fashion garments of theirown. And they kept quiet about the discouraged items they were keeping in theirpockets—Violet’s hair ribbon, Klaus’s commonplace book, and Sunny’s whisk—rather than rocking the boat, as the colony’s facilitator had warned them, not evendaring to ask Friday why she had given Sunny the kitchen implement in the firstplace.But despite the strong taste of cordial, the bland taste of the food, the unflatteringrobes, and the secret items, the Baudelaires still felt more at home than they had inquite some time. Although the children had always managed to find a companion ortwo no matter where they wandered, the Baudelaires had not really been accepted byany sort of community since Count Olaf had framed the children for murder, forcingthem to hide and disguise themselves countless times. The Baudelaires felt safe livingwith the colony, knowing that Count Olaf was not allowed near them, and that theirassociates, if they, too, ended up as castaways, would be welcomed into the tent aslong as they, too, succumbed to the islanders’ peer pressure. Spiceless food,unflattering clothing, and suspicious beverages seemed a fair price to pay for a safeplace to call home, and for a group of people who, if not exactly friends, were at leastcompanions for as long as they wished to stay.The days passed, and the island remained a safe if bland place for the siblings.Violet would have liked to spend her days assisting the islanders in the building ofthe enormous outrigger, but at Ishmael’s suggestion she assisted Friday, Robinson,and Professor Fletcher with the colony’s laundry, and spent most of her time at thesaltwater falls, washing everyone’s robes and laying them out on rocks to dry in thesun. Klaus would have enjoyed walking over the brae to catalog all of the detritus thecolonists had collected while storm scavenging, but everyone had agreed with thefacilitator’s idea that the middle Baudelaire would stay at Ishmael’s side at all times,so he spent his days piling clay on the old man’s feet, and running to refill hisseashell with cordial.Only Sunny was allowed to do something in her area of expertise, but assistingMrs. Caliban with the cooking was not very interesting, as the colony’s three mealswere very easy to prepare. Every morning, the youngest Baudelaire would retrievethe seaweed that Alonso and Ariel had harvested from the sea, after it had beenrinsed by Sherman and Robinson and laid out to dry by Erewhon and Weyden, andsimply throw it into a bowl for breakfast. In the afternoon, Ferdinand and Larsenwould bring an enormous pile of fish they had captured in the colony’s nets, soSunny and Mrs. Caliban could mush it into ceviche with their runcible spoons, and inthe evening the two chefs would light a fire and slowly simmer a pot of wild onionsOmeros and Finn had picked, along with wild grasses reaped by Brewster andCalypso that served as dinner’s only spice, and serve the soup alongside seashells fullof the coconut cordial Byam and Willa had fermented from coconuts Mr. Pitcairn andMs. Marlow had gathered from the island’s coconut trees. None of these recipes wasvery challenging to prepare, and Sunny ended up spending much of her day inidleness, a word which here means “lounging around with Mrs. Caliban, sippingcoconut cordial and staring at the sea.”After so many frantic encounters and tragic experiences, the children were notaccustomed to leading such a calm life, and for the first few days they felt a bitrestless without the treachery of Count Olaf and his sinister mysteries, and theintegrity of V.F.D. and its noble deeds, but with every good night’s sleep in thebreezy comfort of a tent, and every day’s work at easy tasks, and every sip of thesweet coconut cordial, the strife and treachery of the children’s lives felt farther andfarther away. After a few days, another storm arrived, just as Ishmael had predicted,and as the sky blackened and the island was covered in wind and rain, theBaudelaires huddled with the other islanders in the facilitator’s tent, and they weregrateful for their uneventful life on the colony, rather than the stormy existence theyhad endured since their parents had died.“Janiceps,” Sunny said to her siblings the next morning, as the Baudelaires walkedalong the coastal shelf. According to custom, the islanders were all storm scavenging,and here and there on the flat horizon, poking at the detritus of the storm. By“Janiceps,” the youngest Baudelaire meant “I’m of two minds about living here,” anexpression which means that she couldn’t decide if she liked the island colony or not.“I know what you mean,” Klaus said, who was carrying Sunny on his shoulders.“Life isn’t very exciting here, but at least we’re not in any danger.”“I suppose we should be grateful for that,” Violet said, “even though life in thecolony seems quite strict.”“Ishmael keeps saying he won’t force us to do anything,” Klaus said, “buteverything feels a bit forced anyway.”“At least they forced Olaf away,” Violet pointed out, “which is more than V.F.D.ever accomplished.”“Diaspora,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “We live in such a distantplace that the battle between V.F.D. and their enemies seems very far away.”“The only V.F.D. around here,” Klaus said, leaning down to peer into a pool ofwater, “is our Very Flavorless Diet.”Violet smiled. “Not so long ago,” she said, “we were desperate to reach the lastsafe place by Thursday. Now, everywhere we look is safe, and we have no idea whatday it is.”“I still miss home,” Sunny said.“Me too,” Klaus said. “For some reason I keep missing the library at Lucky SmellsLumbermill.”“Charles’s library?” Violet asked, with an amazed smile. “It was a beautiful room,but it only had three books. Why on earth do you miss that place?”“Three books are better than none,” Klaus said. “The only thing I’ve read since wearrived here is my own commonplace book. I suggested to Ishmael that he coulddictate a history of the colony to me, and that I’d write it down so the islanders wouldknow about how this place came to be. Other colonists could write down their ownstories, and eventually this island would have its own library. But Ishmael said thathe wouldn’t force me, but he didn’t think it would be a good idea to write a book thatwould upset people with its descriptions of storms and castaways. I don’t want torock the boat, but I miss my research.”“I know what you mean,” Violet said. “I keep missing Madame Lulu’s fortunetelling tent.”“With all those phony magic tricks?” Klaus said.“Her inventions were pretty ridiculous,” Violet admitted, “but if I had those simplemechanical materials, I think I could make a simple water filtration system. If wecould manufacture fresh water, the islanders wouldn’t have to drink coconut cordialall day long. But Friday said that the drinking of the cordial was inveterate.”“Nospine?” Sunny asked.“She meant people had been drinking it for so long that they wouldn’t want tostop,” Violet said. “I don’t want to rock the boat, but I miss working on inventions.What about you, Sunny? What do you miss?”“Fountain,” Sunny said.“The Fowl Fountain, at the Village of Fowl Devotees?” Klaus asked.“No,” Sunny said, shaking her head. “In city.”“The Fountain of Victorious Finance?” Violet asked. “Why on earth would youmiss that?”“First swim,” Sunny said, and her siblings gasped.“You can’t remember that,” Klaus said.“You were just a few weeks old,” Violet said.“ I remember,” Sunny said firmly, as the Baudelaires shook their heads in wonder.Sunny was talking about an afternoon long ago, during an unusually hot autumn inthe city. The Baudelaire parents had some business to attend to, and brought alongthe children, promising to stop at the ice cream store on the way home. The familyhad arrived at the banking district, pausing to rest at the Fountain of VictoriousFinance, and the Baudelaires’ mother had hurried into a building with tall, curvedtowers poking out in all directions, while their father waited outside with thechildren. The hot weather made Sunny very cranky, and she began to fuss. To quiether, the Baudelaires’ father dipped her bare feet in the water, and Sunny had smiledso enthusiastically that he had begun to dunk Sunny’s body, clothes and all, into thefountain, until the youngest Baudelaire was screaming with laughter. As you mayknow, the laughter of babies is often very contagious, and before long not only wereViolet and Klaus also jumping into the fountain, but the Baudelaires’ father, too, allof them laughing and laughing as Sunny grew more and more delighted. Soon theBaudelaires’ mother came out of the building, and looked in astonishment for amoment at her soaking and giggling family, before putting down her pocketbook,kicking off her shoes, and joining them in the refreshing water. They laughed all theway home, each footstep a wet squish, and sat out on their front steps to dry in thesun. It was a wonderful day, but very long ago—so long ago Violet and Klaus hadalmost forgotten it themselves. But as Sunny reminded them, they could almost hearher newborn laughter, and see the incredulous looks of the bankers who were passingby.“It’s hard to believe,” Violet said, “that our parents could laugh like that, whenthey were already involved with V.F.D. and all its troubles.”“The schism must have seemed a world away that day,” Klaus said.“And now,” Sunny said, and her siblings nodded in agreement. With the morningsun blazing overhead, and the sea sparkling at the edge of the coastal shelf, theirsurroundings seemed as far from trouble and treachery as that afternoon in theFountain of Victorious Finance. But trouble and treachery are rarely as far away asone thinks they are on the clearest of days. On that faraway afternoon in the bankingdistrict, for instance, trouble could be found in the corridors of the towered building,where the Baudelaires’ mother was handed a weather report and a naval map thatwould reveal, when she studied them by candlelight that evening, far greater troublethan she had imagined, and treachery could be found just past the fountain, where awoman disguised as a pretzel vendor took a photograph of the laughing family, andslipped her camera into the coat pocket of a financial expert who was hurrying to arestaurant, where the coat-check boy would remove the camera and hide it in anenormous parfait glass of fruit that a certain playwright would order for dessert, onlyto have a quick-thinking waitress pretend that the cream in the zabaglione sauce hadgone sour and dump the entire dish into a garbage can in the alley, where I had beensitting for hours, pretending to look for a lost puppy who was actually scurrying intothe back entrance of the towered building, removing her disguise, and folding it intoher handbag, and this morning on the coastal shelf was no different. The Baudelairestook a few more steps in silence, squinting into the sun, and then Sunny knockedgently on her brother’s head and pointed out at the horizon. The three children lookedcarefully, and saw an object resting unevenly on the edge of the shelf, and this wastrouble, even though it didn’t look like trouble at the time. It was hard to say what itlooked like, only that it was large, and square, and ragged, and the children hurriedcloser to get a better view. Violet led the way, stepping carefully around a few crabssnapping along the shelf, and Klaus followed behind, with Sunny still on hisshoulders, and even when they reached the object they found it difficult to identify.A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEndAt first glance, the large, square, ragged object looked like a combination ofeverything the Baudelaires missed. It looked like a library, because the object seemedto be nothing more than stacks and stacks of books, piled neatly on top of one anotherin a huge cube. But it also looked like an invention, because wrapped around the cubeof books, the way string is wrapped around a package, were thick straps thatappeared to be made out of rubber, in varying shades of green, and on one side of thecube was affixed a large flap of battered wood. And it also looked like a fountain, aswater was trickling out of it from all sides, leaking through the bloated pages of thebooks and splashing down to the sand of the coastal shelf. But although this was avery unusual sight, the children stared not at the cube but at something at the top ofthis strange contraption. It was a bare foot, hanging over the side of the cube as ifthere were someone sleeping on the top of all those books, and the Baudelaires couldsee, right on the ankle, a tattoo of an eye.“Olaf?” Sunny asked, but her siblings shook their heads. They had seen CountOlaf’s foot more times than they would like to count, and this foot was muchnarrower and cleaner than the villain’s.“Climb onto my back,” Violet said to her brother. “Maybe we can hoist Sunny tothe top.”Klaus nodded, climbed carefully onto his sister’s back, and then, very slowly,stood on Violet’s shoulders. The three Baudelaires stood in a trembling tower, andSunny reached out her little hands and pulled herself up, as she had pulled herself outof the elevator shaft at 667 Dark Avenue not so long ago, and saw the woman whowas lying unconscious on top of the stack of books. She was dressed in a dress ofdark red velvet, which was streaked and soaked from the rain, and her hair laysprawled behind her like a wide, tangled fan. The foot that was hanging over the sideof the cube was bent a strange, wrong way, but she looked otherwise unharmed. Hereyes were closed, and her mouth was frowning, but her belly, full and round from herpregnancy, rose and fell with calm, deep breaths, and her hands, covered in long,white gloves, lay gently on her chest, as if she were comforting herself, or her child.“Kit Snicket,” Sunny called down to her siblings, her voice hushed withamazement.“Yes?” replied a voice that was high-pitched and grating, a word which heremeans “irritating, and sadly familiar.” From behind the cube of books, a figurestepped out to greet the children, and Sunny looked down and frowned as the towerof elder Baudelaires turned to face the person who was confronting them. This personwas also wearing a talaric—a word which here means “just reaching the ankles”—dress that was streaked and soaked, although the dress was not just red but orangeand yellow as well, the colors melting together as the person walked closer and closerto the children. This person was not wearing gloves, but a pile of seaweed had beenarranged to resemble long hair, which cascaded hideously down this person’s back,and although this person’s belly was also full and round, it was full and round in anodd and unconvincing way. It would have been very unusual if the belly weregenuine, because it was obvious from looking at the person’s face that the person wasnot a woman, and pregnancy occurs very rarely in males, although the male seahorseis a creature that becomes pregnant from time to time.But this person, stepping closer and closer to the towered elder Baudelaires andgazing angrily up at the youngest, was no seahorse, of course. If the odd cube ofbooks was trouble, then this man was treachery, and as is so often the case withtreachery, his name was Count Olaf. Violet and Klaus stared at the villain, and Sunnystared at Kit, and then the three children looked out at the horizon, where otherislanders who had spotted the strange object were heading toward them. Lastly, theBaudelaire orphans looked at one another, and wondered if a schism were so very faraway after all, or if they had traveled a world away only to find all the trouble andtreachery of the world staring them right in the face.CHAPTERSIXAt this point, you may find yourself recognizing all of the sad hallmarks of theBaudelaire orphans’ sad history. The word “hallmarks” refers to something’sdistinguishing characteristics, such as the frothy foam and loud fizz that are thehallmarks of a root beer float, or the tearstained photographs and the loud fizz thatare the hallmarks of a broken heart. Certainly the Baudelaires themselves, who as faras I know have not read their own sad history, but of course are its primaryparticipants, had a queasy feeling in their stomachs as the islanders approached them,holding various items they had found while storm scavenging. It appeared that onceagain, after arriving in a strange new home, Count Olaf would fool everyone with hislatest disguise, and the Baudelaires would once again be in grave danger. In fact,Count Olaf’s talaric disguise did not even cover the tattoo of an eye he wore on hisankle, as the islanders, living so far from the world, would not know about thisnotorious mark and so could be fooled even more easily. But as the colonists drewclose to the cube of books where Kit Snicket lay unconscious, suddenly theBaudelaires’ history went contrary to expectations, a phrase which here means “Theyoung girl they had first met on the coastal shelf recognized Count Olafimmediately.”“That’s Olaf!” Friday cried, pointing an accusatory finger at the villain. “Why ishe dressed as a pregnant woman?”“I’m dressed as a pregnant woman because I am a pregnant woman,” Count Olafreplied, in his high-pitched, disguised voice. “My name is Kit Snicket, and I’ve beenlooking everywhere for these children.”“You’re not Kit Snicket!” Mrs. Caliban cried.“Kit Snicket is up on this pile of books,” Violet said indignantly, helping Sunnydown from the top of the cube. “She’s a friend of ours, and she may be hurt, or ill.But this is Count Olaf, who is no friend of ours.”“He’s no friend of ours, either,” Friday said, and there was a murmur of agreementfrom the islanders. “Just because you’ve put something inside your dress to lookpregnant, and thrown a clump of seaweed on your hair to make a wig, doesn’t meanyou won’t be recognized.” She turned to face the three children, who noticed for thefirst time that the islander had a suspicious bump under her robe, as if she, too, hadhidden something under her clothing. “I hope he hasn’t been bothering you. I toldhim specifically to go away.”Count Olaf glared at Friday, but then turned to try his treachery on the otherislanders. “You primitive people won’t tell a pregnant woman to go away, will you?”he asked. “I’m in a very delicate condition.”“You’re not in a very delicate condition,” said Larsen firmly. “You’re in a verytransparent disguise. If Friday says you’re this Olaf person, then I’m sure you are,and you’re not welcome here, due to your unkindness.”“I’ve never been unkind in my life,” Olaf said, running a bony hand through hisseaweed. “I’m nothing but a fairly innocent maiden with my belly full of baby. It isthe Baudelaires who have been unkind, along with this impostor sleeping on top ofthis damp library.”“Library?” Fletcher said with a gasp. “We’ve never had a library on the island.”“Ishmael said that a library was bound to lead to trouble,” said Brewster, “so wewere lucky that a book has never ended up on our shores.”“You see?” Olaf said, his orange and yellow dress rustling in the morning breeze.“That treacherous woman up there has dragged these books to your colony, just to beunkind to you poor primitive people. And the Baudelaires are friends with her!They’re the ones you should abandon here, and I should be welcomed to Olaf-Landand given gifts.”“This island is not called Olaf-Land!” cried Friday. “And you’re the one weabandoned!”“This is confusing!” cried Omeros. “We need a facilitator to sort this out!”“Omeros is right,” said Calypso. “We shouldn’t decide anything until we’ve talkedto Ishmael. Come on, let’s take all this detritus to Ishmael’s tent.”The colonists nodded, and a few villagers walked together to the cube of booksand began to push it along the shelf. It was difficult work, and the cube shuddered asit was dragged along the bumpy surface. The Baudelaires saw Kit’s foot bobviolently up and down and feared that their friend would fall.“Stop,” Klaus said. “It’s not safe to move someone who may be seriously injured,particularly if she’s pregnant.”“Klaus is right,” said Dr. Kurtz. “I remember that from my days in veterinaryschool.”“If Muhammad will not come to the mountain,” Rabbi Bligh said, using anexpression that the islanders understood at once, “the mountain will come toMuhammad.”“But how can Ishmael come here?” asked Erewhon. “He couldn’t walk all thisway with his injured feet.”“The sheep can drag him here,” said Sherman. “We can put his chair on the sleigh.Friday, you guard Olaf and the Baudelaires, while the rest of us will go fetch ourfacilitator.”“And some more coconut cordial,” said Madame Nordoff. “I’m thirsty and myseashell is almost empty.”There was a murmur of agreement from the islanders, and they began to maketheir way back toward the island, still carrying all of the items they had found whilescavenging. In a few minutes, the colonists were nothing more than faint shapes onthe misty horizon, and the Baudelaires were alone with Count Olaf and with Friday,who took a big sip from her seashell and then smiled at the children.“Don’t worry, Baudelaires,” the girl said, holding one hand over the bulge in herrobe. “We’ll sort this out. I promise you that this terrible man will be abandoned onceand for all.”“I’m not a man,” Olaf insisted in his disguised voice. “I’m a lady with a babyinside her.”“Pellucid theatrics,” Sunny said.“My sister’s right,” Violet said. “Your disguise isn’t working.”“Oh, I don’t think you’d want me to stop pretending,” the villain said. He was stilltalking in his ridiculous high-pitched voice, but his eyes shone brightly from behindhis seaweed bangs. He reached behind him and revealed the harpoon gun, with itsbright red trigger and one last harpoon ready to be fired. “If I were to say that I wasCount Olaf, instead of Kit Snicket, I might begin behaving like a villain, rather than anoble person.”“You’ve never behaved like a noble person,” Klaus said, “no matter what nameyou’ve been using. And that weapon doesn’t scare us. You only have one harpoon,and this island is full of people who know how wicked and unkind you are.”“Klaus is right,” Friday said. “You might as well put your weapon down. It’suseless in a place like this.”Count Olaf looked first at Friday, and then at the three Baudelaires, and he openedhis mouth as if to say another treacherous thing in his disguised voice. But then heshut his mouth again, and glared down at the puddles of the coastal shelf. “I’m tiredof wandering around here,” he muttered. “There’s nothing to eat but seaweed and rawfish, and everything valuable has been taken by all those fools in robes.”“If you didn’t behave so horridly,” Friday said, “you could live on the island.”The Baudelaires looked at one another nervously. Although it seemed a bit cruel toabandon Olaf on the shelf, they did not like the idea that he might be welcomed intothe colony. Friday, of course, did not know the whole story of Count Olaf, and hadonly experienced his unkindness once, on the day she first encountered him, but theBaudelaires could not tell Friday the whole story of Olaf without telling the wholestory of themselves, and they did not know what Friday would think of their ownunkindnesses and treachery.Count Olaf looked at Friday as if thinking something over. Then, with a suspicioussmile, he turned to the Baudelaires and held out the harpoon gun. “I suppose you’reright,” he said. “The harpoon gun is useless in a place like this.” He was still talkingin his disguised voice, and his hand caressed his false pregnancy as if there wereactually a baby growing inside him.The Baudelaires looked at Olaf and then at the weapon. The last time the childrenhad touched the harpoon gun, the penultimate harpoon had fired and a noble man bythe name of Dewey had been killed. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny would never forget thesight of Dewey sinking into the waters of the pond as he died, and looking at thevillain offering them the weapon only reminded them of how dangerous and terriblethe weapon was.“We don’t want that,” Violet said.“Obviously this is some trick of yours,” Klaus said.“It’s no trick,” Olaf said in his high-pitched voice. “I’m giving up my villainousways, and I want to live with you on the island. I’m sorry to hear that you don’tbelieve me.”His face was very serious, as if he were very sorry to hear that, but his eyes wereshiny and bright, the way they are when someone is telling a joke. “Fibber,” Sunnysaid.“You insult me, madam,” Olaf said. “I’m as honest as the day is long.”The villain was using an expression that is used by many people despite the factthat it scarcely means anything at all. Some days are long, such as at the height ofsummer, when the sun shines for a very long time, or Halloween day, which alwaysseems to last forever until it is finally time to put on one’s costume and demandcandy from strangers, and some days are short, particularly during the wintertime orwhen one is doing something enjoyable, such as reading a good book or followingrandom people on the street to see where they will go, and so if someone is as honestas the day is long, they may not be honest at all. The children were relieved to seethat Friday was not fooled by Olaf’s use of a vague expression, and she frowned atthe villain sternly.“The Baudelaires told me you were not to be trusted,” the young girl said, “and Ican see that they spoke the truth. You’ll stay right here, Olaf, until the others arriveand we decide what to do with you.”“I’m not Count Olaf,” Count Olaf said, “but in the meantime, could I have a sip ofthis coconut cordial I heard mentioned?”“No,” Friday said, and turned her back on the villain to gaze wistfully at the cubeof books. “I’ve never seen a book before,” she confessed to the Baudelaires. “I hopeIshmael thinks it’s O.K. to keep them here.”“You’ve never seen a book?” Violet said in amazement. “Do you know how toread?”Friday took a quick look around the coastal shelf, and then nodded her headquickly. “Yes,” she said. “Ishmael didn’t think it was a good idea to teach us, butProfessor Fletcher disagreed, and held secret classes on the coastal shelf for those ofus who were born on the island. From time to time, I keep in practice by sketchingthe alphabet in the sand with a stick, but without a library there’s not much I can do. Ihope Ishmael won’t suggest that we let the sheep drag all these books to thearboretum.”“Even if he does, you won’t have to throw them away,” Klaus reminded her. “Hewon’t force you.”“I know,” Friday said with a sigh. “But when Ishmael suggests something,everybody agrees, and it’s hard not to succumb to that kind of peer pressure.”“Whisk,” Sunny reminded her, and took the kitchen implement out of her pocket.Friday smiled at the youngest Baudelaire, but quickly put the item back in Sunny’spocket. “I gave you that whisk because you said you were interested in cooking,” shesaid. “It seemed a shame to deny your interests just because Ishmael might not thinka kitchen implement was appropriate. You’ll keep my secret, won’t you?”“Of course,” Violet said, “but it’s also a shame to deny your interest in reading.”“Maybe Ishmael won’t object,” Friday said.“Maybe,” Klaus said, “or maybe we could try a little peer pressure of our own.”“I don’t want to rock the boat,” Friday said with a frown. “Ever since my father’sdeath, my mother has wanted me to be safe, which is why we left the world farbehind and decided to stay here on the island. But the older I get, it seems the moresecrets I have. Professor Fletcher taught me secretly to read. Omeros taught mesecretly to skip rocks, even though Ishmael says it’s dangerous. I secretly gave Sunnya whisk.” She reached into her robe, and smiled. “And now I have another secret, justfor me. Look what I found curled up in a broken wooden crate.”Count Olaf had been glaring silently at the children, but as Friday revealed hersecret he let out a shriek even more high-pitched than his fake voice. But theBaudelaire orphans did not shriek, even though Friday was holding a frighteninglooking thing, as dark as a coal mine and as thick as a sewer pipe, that uncurled itselfand quickly darted toward the three children. Even as the creature opened its mouth,the morning sun glinting on its sharp teeth, the Baudelaires did not shriek, butmarveled that once again their history was going contrary to expectations.“Incredi!” Sunny cried, and it was true, for the enormous snake that was wrappingitself around the Baudelaires was, incredibly, a creature they had not seen for quitesome time and never thought they would see again in their lives.“It’s the Incredibly Deadly Viper!” Klaus said in amazement. “How in the worlddid it end up here?”“Ishmael said that everything eventually washes up on the shores of this island,”Violet said, “but I never thought I’d see this reptile again.”“Deadly?” Friday asked nervously. “Is it poisonous? It seemed friendly to me.”“It is friendly,” Klaus reassured her. “It’s one of the least deadly and most friendlycreatures in the animal kingdom. Its name is a misnomer.”“How can you be sure?” Friday asked.“We knew the man who discovered it,” Violet said. “His name was Dr.Montgomery Montgomery, and he was a brilliant herpetologist.”“He was a wonderful man,” Klaus said. “We miss him very much.”The Baudelaires hugged the snake, particularly Sunny, who’d had a specialattachment to the playful reptile, and thought for a moment of kind Uncle Monty andthe days the children had spent with him. Then, slowly, they remembered how thosedays had ended, and they turned to look at Count Olaf, who had slaughtered Montyas part of a treacherous plot. Count Olaf frowned, and looked back at them. It wasstrange to see the villain just sitting there, shuddering at a snake, after his murderousscheme to get the orphans in his clutches. Now, so far from the world, it was as ifOlaf no longer had clutches, and his murderous schemes were as useless as theharpoon gun that lay in his hands.“I’ve always wanted to meet a herpetologist,” said Friday, who of course did notknow the whole story of Monty and his murder. “The island doesn’t have an experton snakes. There’s so much of the world I’m missing by living here.”“The world is a wicked place,” Count Olaf said quietly, and now it was theBaudelaires who shuddered. Even with the hot sun beating down on them, and theweight of the Incredibly Deadly Viper in their laps, the children felt a chill at thevillain’s words, and everyone was silent, watching the islanders approach along withthe sheep, who had Ishmael in tow, a phrase which here means “dragged along on thesleigh behind them, sitting on his white chair as if he were a king, with his feet stillcovered in hunks of clay and his woolly beard billowing in the wind.” As thecolonists and sheep walked closer and closer, the children could see that the sheephad something else in tow, too, which sat on the sleigh behind the facilitator’s chair.It was the large, ornate bird cage that had been found after the previous storm,shining in the sunlight like a small fire.“Count Olaf,” Ishmael said in a booming voice, as soon as his chair arrived. Hestared down at the villain scornfully but also carefully, as if memorizing his face.“Ishmael,” Count Olaf said, in his disguised tone.“Call me Ish,” Ishmael said.“Call me Kit Snicket,” Olaf said.“I’m not going to call you anything,” Ishmael growled. “Your reign of treachery isover, Olaf.” In one swift motion, the facilitator leaned down and snatched theseaweed wig off Olaf’s head. “I’ve been told of your schemes and disguises, and wewon’t stand for it. You’ll be locked up immediately.”Jonah and Sadie lifted the bird cage from the sleigh, set it on the ground, andpushed open its door, glaring meaningfully at Count Olaf. With a nod from Ishmael,Weyden and Ms. Marlow stepped toward the villain, wrestled the harpoon gun fromhis hands, and dragged him toward the bird cage, as the Baudelaire orphans looked atone another, unsure exactly how they felt. On one hand, it seemed as if the childrenhad been waiting their entire lives for someone to utter precisely the words Ishmaelhad uttered, and they were eager for Olaf to finally be punished for his dreadful acts,from his recent kidnapping of Justice Strauss to the time, long ago, when he hadthrown Sunny into a bird cage and dangled her from his tower window. But theyweren’t convinced that Count Olaf should be locked in a cage himself, even a cage aslarge as the one that had washed ashore. It wasn’t clear to the children If what washappening now, on the coastal shelf, was the arrival of justice at last, or just anotherunfortunate event. Throughout their history the Baudelaires had always hoped thatCount Olaf would end up in the hands of the authorities, and would be punished bythe High Court after a trial. But members of the High Court had turned out to be ascorrupt and sinister as Olaf himself, and the authorities were far, far away from theisland, and looking for the Baudelaires in order to charge them with arson andmurder. It was difficult to say, so far from the world, how the three children felt aboutCount Olaf being dragged into a bird cage, but as was so often the case, it did notmatter how the three children felt about it, because it happened anyway. Wey-den andMs. Marlow dragged the struggling villain to the door of the bird cage and forcedhim to duck inside. He snarled, and wrapped his arms around his false pregnancy, andrested his head against his knees, and hunched his back, and the Bellamy siblingsshut the door of the cage and latched it securely. The villain fit in the cage, but justbarely, and you had to look closely to see that the mess of limbs and hair and orangeand yellow cloth was a person at all. “This isn’t fair,” Olaf said. His voice wasmuffled from inside the cage, although the children noticed that he was still using ahigh-pitched tone, as if he could not help pretending to be Kit Snicket. “I’m aninnocent pregnant woman, and these children are the real villains. You haven’t heardthe whole story.”“It depends on how you look at it,” Ishmael said firmly. “Friday told me you wereunkind, and that’s all we need to hear. And this seaweed wig is all we need to see!”“Ishmael’s right,” Mrs. Caliban said firmly. “You’ve been nothing but treacherous,Olaf, and the Baudelaires have been nothing but good!”“‘Nothing but good,’” Olaf repeated. “Ha! Why don’t you look in the baby’spockets if you think she’s so good. She’s hiding a kitchen implement that one of yourprecious islanders gave her!”Ishmael peered down at the youngest Baudelaire from his vantage point, a phrasewhich here means “chair perched on a sleigh dragged by sheep.” “Is that true,Sunny?” he asked. “Are you keeping a secret from us?”Sunny looked up at the facilitator, and then at the bird cage, remembering howuncomfortable was to be locked up. “Yes,” she admitted, and took the whisk out ofher pocket as the islanders gasped.“Who gave this to you?” Ishmael demanded.“Nobody gave it to her,” Klaus said quickly, not daring to look at Friday. “It’s justsomething that survived the storm along with us.” He reached into his pocket andbrought out his commonplace book. “Each of us has something, Ishmael. I have thisnotebook, and my sister has a ribbon she likes to use to tie up her hair.”There was another gasp from the assembled colonists, and Violet took the ribbonout of her pocket.“We didn’t mean any harm,” she said.“You were told of the island’s customs,” the facilitator said sternly, “and you choseto ignore them. We were very kind to you, giving you food and clothing and shelter,and even letting you keep your glasses. And in turn, you were unkind to us.”“They made a mistake,” Friday said, swiftly gathering the forbidden items fromthe Baudelaires and giving Sunny a brief and grateful look. “We’ll let the sheep takethese things away, and forget all about it.”“That seems fair,” said Sherman.“I agree,” Professor Fletcher said.“Me too,” Omeros said, who had picked up the harpoon gun.Ishmael frowned, but as more and more islanders expressed their agreement, hesuccumbed to peer pressure and gave the orphans a small smile. “I suppose they canstay,” he said, “if they don’t rock the boat any further.” He sighed, and then suddenlyfrowned down at a puddle. During the conversation, the Incredibly Deadly Viper haddecided to take a brief swim, and was now staring up at the facilitator from a pool ofseawater.“What is that?” Mr. Pitcairn asked, with a frightened gasp.“It’s a friendly snake we found,” Friday said.“Who told you it was friendly?” demanded Ferdinand.Friday shared a quick dismayed look with the Baudelaires. After all that hadhappened, they knew there was no hope of convincing Ishmael that keeping the snakewas a good idea. “Nobody told me,” Friday said quietly. “It just seems friendly.”“It looks incredibly deadly,” Erewhon said with a frown. “I say we dump it in thearboretum.”“We don’t want a snake slithering around the arboretum,” Ishmael said, strokinghis beard quickly. “It might hurt the sheep. I won’t force you, but I think we shouldabandon it here with Count Olaf. Come along now, it’s almost lunchtime.Baudelaires, please push that cube of books to the arboretum, and—”“Our friend shouldn’t be moved,” Violet interrupted, with a gesture to Kit’sunconscious figure. “We need to help her.”“I didn’t realize there was a castaway up there,” Mr. Pitcairn said, peering at thebare foot that was still hanging over the side of the cube. “Look, she has the sametattoo as the villain!”“She’s my girlfriend,” said Olaf from the bird cage. “You should either punish usboth or set us both free.”“She’s not your girlfriend!” Klaus cried. “She’s our friend, and she’s in trouble!”“It seems that from the moment you joined us, the island is threatened withsecrecy and treachery,” Ishmael said, with a weary sigh. “We’ve never had to punishanyone here before you arrived, and now there’s another suspicious person lurkingaround the island.”“Dreyfuss?” Sunny said, which meant “What precisely are you accusing us of?”but the facilitator kept talking as if she had not said a word.“I won’t force you,” Ishmael said, “but if you want to be a part of the safe placewe’ve constructed, I think you should abandon this Kit Snicket person, too, eventhough I’ve never heard of her.”“We won’t abandon her,” Violet said. “She needs our help.”“As I said, I won’t force you,” Ishmael said, with one last tug on his beard. “Goodbye, Baudelaires. You can stay here on the coastal shelf with your friend and yourbooks, if those things are so important to you.”“But what will happen to them?” asked Willa. “Decision Day is approaching, andthe coastal shelf will flood with water.”“That’s their problem,” Ishmael said, and gave the islanders an imperious—theword “imperious,” as you probably know, means “mighty and a bit snobbish”—shrug. As his shoulders raised, a small object rolled out of the sleeve of his robe andlanded with a small plop! in a puddle, narrowly missing the bird cage where Olaf wasprisoner. The Baudelaires could not identify the object, but whatever it was, it wasenough to make Ishmael hurriedly clap his hands to distract anyone who might bewondering about it.“Let’s go!” he cried, and the sheep began to drag him back toward his tent. A fewislanders gave the Baudelaires apologetic looks, as if they disagreed with Ishmael’ssuggestions but did not dare to resist the peer pressure of their fellow colonists.Professor Fletcher and Omeros, who had secrets of their own, looked particularlyregretful, and Friday looked as if she might cry. She even started to say something tothe Baudelaires, but Mrs. Caliban stepped forward and put her arm firmly around thegirl’s shoulders, and she merely gave the siblings a sad wave and walked away withher mother. The Baudelaires were too stunned for a moment to say anything.Contrary to expectations, Count Olaf had not fooled the inhabitants of this place sofar from the world, and had instead been captured and punished. But still theBaudelaires were not safe, and certainly not happy to find themselves abandoned onthe coastal shelf like so much detritus.“This isn’t fair,” Klaus said finally, but he said it so quietly that the departingislanders probably did not hear. Only his sisters heard him, and the snake theBaudelaires thought they would never see again, and of course Count Olaf, who washuddled in the large, ornate bird cage like an imprisoned beast, and who was the onlyperson to answer him.“Life isn’t fair,” he said, in his undisguised voice, and for once the Baudelaireorphans agreed with every word the man said.CHAPTERSevenThe predicament of the Baudelaire orphans as they sat abandoned on the coastalshelf, with Kit Snicket unconscious at the top of the cube of books above them,Count Olaf locked in a cage alongside them, and the Incredibly Deadly Viper curledat their feet, is an excellent opportunity to use the phrase “under a cloud.” The threechildren were certainly under a cloud that afternoon, and not just because one lonemass of condensed water vapor, which Klaus was able to identify as being of thecumulus variety, was hanging over them in the sky like another castaway from theprevious night’s storm. The expression “under a cloud” refers to people who are outof favor in a particular community, the way most classrooms have at least one childwho is quite unpopular, or most secret organizations have at least one rhetoricalanalyst who is under suspicion. The island’s only community had certainly placedViolet, Klaus, and Sunny under a cloud, and even in the blazing afternoon sun thechildren felt the chill of the colony’s suspicion and disapproval.“I can’t believe it,” Violet said. “I can’t believe we’ve been abandoned.”“We thought we could cast away everything that happened to us before we arrivedhere,” Klaus said, “but this place is no safer than anywhere else we’ve been.”“But what to do?” Sunny asked.Violet looked around the coastal shelf. “I suppose we can catch fish and harvestseaweed to eat,” she said. “Our meals won’t be much different from those on theisland.”“If fire,” Sunny said thoughtfully, “then saltbake carp.”“We can’t live here,” Klaus pointed out. “Decision Day is approaching, and thecoastal shelf will be underwater. We either have to live on the island, or figure out away to get back to where we came from.”“We’ll never survive a journey at sea without a boat,” Violet said, wishing she hadher ribbon back so she could tie up her hair.“Kit did,” Sunny pointed out.“The library must have served as a sort of raft,” Klaus said, running his hand alongthe books, “but she couldn’t have come far on a boat of paper.”“I hope she met up with the Quagmires,” Violet said.“I hope she’ll wake up and tell us what happened,” Klaus said.“Do you think she’s seriously hurt?” Violet asked.“There’s no way to tell without a complete medical examination,” Klaus said, “butexcept for her ankle, she looks all right. She’s probably just exhausted from thestorm.”“Worried,” Sunny said sadly, wishing there was a dry, warm blanket on the coastalshelf that the Baudelaires might have used to cover their unconscious friend.“We can’t just worry about Kit,” Klaus said. “We need to worry about ourselves.”“We have to think of a plan,” Violet said wearily, and all three Baudelaires sighed.Even the Incredibly Deadly Viper seemed to sigh, and laid its head sympatheticallyon Sunny’s foot. The Baudelaires stood on the coastal shelf and thought of all theirprevious predicaments, and all the plans they’d thought up to make themselves safe,only to end up in the midst of another unfortunate event. The cloud they were underseemed to get bigger and darker, and the children might have sat there for quite sometime had not the silence been broken by the voice of the man who was locked in abird cage.“I have a plan,” Count Olaf said. “Let me out and I’ll tell you what it is.”Although Olaf was no longer using his high-pitched voice, he still soundedmuffled from within the cage, and when the Baudelaires turned to look at him it wasas if he were in one of his disguises. The yellow and orange dress he had beenwearing covered most of him up, and the children could not see the curve of his falsepregnancy or the tattoo of an eye he had on his ankle. Only a few toes and fingersextended from between the bird cage’s bars, and if the siblings peered closely theycould see the wet curve of his mouth, and one blinking eye staring out from hiscaptivity.“We’re not letting you out,” Violet said. “We have enough trouble without youwandering around loose.”“Suit yourself,” Olaf said, and his dress rustled as he attempted to shrug. “Butyou’ll drown as surely as I will when the coastal shelf floods. You can’t build a boat,because the islanders have scavenged everything from the storm. And you can’t liveon the island, because the colonists have abandoned you. Even though we’reshipwrecked, we’re still in the same boat.”“We don’t need your help, Olaf,” Klaus said. “If it weren’t for you, we wouldn’tbe here in the first place.”“Don’t be so sure of that,” Count Olaf said, and his mouth curled into a smile.“Everything eventually washes up on these shores, to be judged by that idiot in therobe. Do you think you’re the first Baudelaires to find yourselves here?”“What you mean?” Sunny demanded.“Let me out,” Olaf said, with a muffled chuckle, “and I’ll tell you.”The Baudelaires looked at one another doubtfully. “You’re trying to trick us,”Violet said.“Of course I’m trying to trick you!” Olaf cried. “That’s the way of the world,Baudelaires. Everybody runs around with their secrets and their schemes, trying tooutwit everyone else. Ishmael outwitted me, and put me in this cage. But I know howto outwit him and all his islander friends. If you let me out, I can be king of OlafLand, and you three can be my new henchfolk.”“We don’t want to be your henchfolk,” Klaus said. “We just want to be safe.”“Nowhere in the world is safe,” Count Olaf said.“Not with you around,” Violet agreed.“I’m no worse than anyone else,” Count Olaf said. “Ishmael is just as treacherousas I am.”“Fustianed,” Sunny said.“It’s true!” Olaf insisted, although he probably did not understand what Sunny hadsaid. “Look at me! I’m stuffed into a cage for no good reason! Does that soundfamiliar, you stupid baby?”“My sister is not a baby,” Violet said firmly, “and Ishmael is not treacherous. Hemay be misguided, but he’s only trying to make the island a safe place.”“Is that so?” Olaf said, and the cage shook as he chuckled. “Why don’t you reachinto that pool, and see what Ishmael dropped into the puddle?”The Baudelaires looked at one another. They had almost forgotten about the objectthat had rolled out of the facilitator’s sleeve. The three children stared down into thewater, but it was the Incredibly Deadly Viper who wriggled into the murky depths ofthe puddle and came back with a small object in its mouth, which it deposited intoSunny’s waiting hand.“Takk,” Sunny said, thanking the snake by scratching it on the head.“What is it?” Violet said, leaning in to look at what the viper had retrieved.“It’s an apple core,” Klaus said, and his sisters saw that it was so. Sunny washolding the core of an apple, which had been so thoroughly nibbled that scarcelyanything remained.“You see?” Olaf asked. “While the other islanders have to do all the work, Ishmaelsneaks off to the arboretum on his perfectly healthy feet and eats all the apples forhimself! Your beloved facilitator not only has clay on his feet, he has feet of clay!”The bird cage shook with laughter, and the Baudelaire orphans looked first at theapple core and then at one another. “Feet of clay” is an expression which refers to aperson who appears to be honest and true, but who turns out to have a hiddenweakness or a treacherous secret. If someone turns out to have feet of clay, youropinion of them may topple, just as a statue will topple if its base turns out to bebadly constructed. The Baudelaires had thought Ishmael was wrong to abandon themon the coastal shelf, of course, but they believed he had done it to keep the otherislanders out of harm’s way, just as Mrs. Caliban had not wanted Friday to upsetherself by learning to read, and although they did not agree with much of thefacilitator’s philosophy, they at least respected the fact that he was trying to do thesame thing the Baudelaires had been trying to do since that terrible day on the beachwhen they had first become orphans: to find or build a safe place to call home. Butnow, looking at the apple core, they realized what Count Olaf said was true. Ishmaelhad feet of clay. He was lying about his injuries, and he was selfish about the applesin the arboretum, and he was treacherous in pressuring everyone else on the island todo all the work. Gazing at the treacherous teeth marks the facilitator had left behind,they remembered his claim that he predicted the weather by magic, and the strangelook in his eye when he insisted that the island had no library, and the Baudelaireswondered what other secrets the bearded facilitator was hiding. Violet, Klaus, andSunny sank to a mound of damp sand, as if they had feet of clay themselves, andleaned against the cube of books, wondering how they could have traveled so farfrom the world only to find the same dishonesty and treachery they always had.“What is your plan?” Violet asked Count Olaf, after a long silence.“Let me out of this cage,” Olaf said, “and I’ll tell you.”“Tell us first,” Klaus said, “and perhaps we’ll let you out.”“Let me out first,” Olaf insisted.“Tell us first,” Sunny insisted, just as firmly.“I can argue with you all day,” the villain growled. “Let me out, I tell you, or I’lltake my plan to my grave!”“We can think of a plan without you,” Violet said, hoping she sounded moreconfident than she felt. “We’ve managed to escape plenty of difficult situationswithout your help.”“I have the only weapon that can threaten Ishmael and his supporters,” Count Olafsaid.“The harpoon gun?” Klaus said. “Omeros took that away.”“Not the harpoon gun, you scholarly moron,” Count Olaf said contemptuously, aword which here means “while trying to scratch his nose within the confines of thebird cage.” “I’m talking about the Medusoid Mycelium!”“Fungus!” Sunny cried. Her siblings gasped, and even the Incredibly Deadly Viperlooked astonished in its reptilian way as the villain told them what you may havealready guessed.“I’m not really pregnant,” he confessed with a caged grin. “The diving helmetcontaining the spores of the Medusoid Mycelium is hidden in this dress I’m wearing.If you let me out, I can threaten the entire colony with these deadly mushrooms. Allthose robed fools will be my slaves!”“What if they refuse?” Violet asked.“Then I’ll smash the helmet open,” Olaf crowed, “and this whole island will bedestroyed.”“But we’ll be destroyed, too,” Klaus said. “The spores will infect us, the same aseveryone else.”“Yomhashoah,” Sunny said, which meant “Never again.” The youngest Baudelairehad already been infected by the Medusoid Mycelium not long ago, and the childrendid not like to think about what would have happened if they hadn’t found somewasabi to dilute the poison.“We’ll escape on the outrigger, you fool,” Olaf said. “The island imbeciles havebeen building it all year. It’s perfect for leaving this place behind and heading back towhere the action is.”“Maybe they’ll just let us leave,” Violet said. “Friday said that anyone who wishesto leave the colony can climb aboard the outrigger on Decision Day.”“That little girl hasn’t been here long,” sneered Count Olaf, “so she still believesIshmael lets people do whatever they want. Don’t be as dumb as she is, orphans.”Klaus wished desperately that his commonplace book was open in his lap, so hecould take notes, instead of on the far side of the island, with all of the otherforbidden items. “How do you know so much about this place, Olaf?” he demanded.“You’ve only been here a few days, just like us!”“Just like you,” the villain repeated mockingly, and the cage shook with laughteragain. “Do you think your pathetic history is the only story in the world? Do youthink this island has just sat here in the sea, waiting for you to wash up on its shores?Do you think that I just sat in my home in the city, waiting for you miserable orphansto stumble into my path?”“Boswell,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of, “Your life doesn’tinterest me,” and the Incredibly Deadly Viper seemed to hiss in agreement.“I could tell you stories, Baudelaires,” Count Olaf said in a muffled wheeze. “Icould tell you secrets about people and places that you’d never dream of. I could tellyou about arguments and schisms that started before you were born. I could even tellyou things about yourselves that you could never imagine. Just open the door of mycage, orphans, and I’ll tell you things you could never discover on your own.”The Baudelaires looked at one another and shuddered. Even in broad daylight,trapped in a cage, Count Olaf was still frightening. It was as if there was somethingvillainous that could threaten them even if it were locked up tight, far away from therest of the world. The three siblings had always been curious children. Violet hadbeen eager to unlock the mysteries of the mechanical world with her inventing mindsince the first pair of pliers had been placed in her crib. Klaus had been keen to readeverything he got his hands on since the alphabet was first printed on the wall of hisbedroom by a visitor to the Baudelaire home. And Sunny was always exploring theuniverse through her mouth, first by biting anything that interested her, and later bytasting food carefully in order to improve her cooking skills. Curiosity was one of theBaudelaires’ most important customs, and one might think that they would be verycurious indeed to hear more about the mysteries the villain had mentioned. But therewas something very, very sinister about Count Olaf’s words. Listening to him talkfelt like standing on the edge of a deep well, or walking on a high cliff in the dead ofnight, or listening to a strange rustling sound outside your bedroom window, knowingthat at any moment something dangerous and enormous could happen. It made theBaudelaires think of that terrible question mark on the radar screen of the Queequeg—a secret so gigantic and important that it could not fit in their hearts or minds,something that had been hidden their entire lives and might destroy their entire livesonce it was revealed. It was not a secret the Baudelaire orphans wanted to hear, fromCount Olaf or from anyone else, and although it felt like a secret that could not beavoided, the children wanted to avoid it anyway, and without another word to theman in the cage the three siblings stood up and walked around the cube of books untilthey were at the far end, where Olaf and his bird cage could not be seen. Then, insilence, the three siblings sat back down, leaned against the strange raft, and staredout at the flat horizon of the sea, trying not to think about what Olaf had said.Occasionally they took sips of coconut cordial from the seashells that hung from theirwaists, hoping that the strong, strange drink would distract them from the strong,strange thoughts in their heads. All afternoon, until the sun set on the rippling horizonof the sea, the Baudelaire orphans sat and sipped, and wondered if they dared learnwhat lay at the heart of their sad lives, when every secret, every mystery, and everyunfortunate event had been peeled away .CHAPTEREightThinking about something is like picking up a stone when taking a walk, eitherwhile skipping rocks on the beach, for example, or looking for a way to shatter theglass doors of a museum. When you think about something, it adds a bit of weight toyour walk, and as you think about more and more things you are liable to feel heavierand heavier, until you are so burdened you cannot take any further steps, and canonly sit and stare at the gentle movements of the ocean waves or security guards,thinking too hard about too many things to do anything else. As the sun set, castinglong shadows on the coastal shelf, the Baudelaire orphans felt so heavy from theirthoughts they could scarcely move. They thought about the island, and the terriblestorm that had brought them there, and the boat that had taken them through thestorm, and their own treachery at the Hotel Denouement that had led them to escapein the boat with Count Olaf, who had stopped calling out to the Baudelaires and wasnow snoring loudly in the bird cage. They thought about the colony, and the cloud theislanders had put them under, and the peer pressure that had led the islanders todecide to abandon them, and the facilitator who started the peer pressure, and thesecret apple core of the facilitator that seemed no different than the secret items thathad gotten the Baudelaires in trouble in the first place. They thought about KitSnicket, and the storm that had left her unconscious on top of the strange library raft,and their friends the Quagmire triplets, who may also have been caught in the samestormy sea, and Captain Widdershins’s submarine that lay under the sea, and themysterious schism that lay under everything like an enormous question mark. Andthe Baudelaires thought, as they did every time they saw the sky grow dark, of theirparents. If you’ve ever lost someone, then you know that sometimes when you thinkof them you try to imagine where they might be, and the Baudelaires thought of howfar away their mother and father seemed, while all the wickedness in the world felt soclose, locked in a cage just a few feet from where the children sat. Violet thought, andKlaus thought, and Sunny thought, and as the afternoon drew to evening they felt soburdened by their thoughts that they felt they could scarcely hold another thought,and yet as the last rays of the sun disappeared on the horizon they found somethingelse to think about, for in the darkness they heard a familiar voice, and they had tothink of what to do.“Where am I?” asked Kit Snicket, and the children heard her body rustle on the toplayer of books over the snoring.“Kit!” Violet said, standing up quickly. “You’re awake!”“It’s the Baudelaires,” Klaus said.“Baudelaires?” Kit repeated faintly. “Is it really you?”“Anais,” Sunny said, which meant “In the flesh.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEnd“Where are we?” Kit said. The Baudelaires were silent for a moment, and realizedfor the first time that they did not even know the name of the place where they were.“We’re on a coastal shelf,” Violet said finally, although she decided not to add thatthey had been abandoned there.“There’s an island nearby,” Klaus said. The middle Baudelaire did not explain thatthey were not welcome to set foot on it.“Safe,” Sunny said, but she did not mention that Decision Day was approaching,and that soon the entire area would be flooded with seawater. Without discussing thematter, the Baudelaires decided not to tell Kit the whole story, not yet.“Of course,” Kit murmured. “I should have known I’d be here. Eventually,everything washes up on these shores.”“Have you been here before?” Violet asked.“No,” Kit said, “but I’ve heard about this place. My associates have told me storiesof its mechanical wonders, its enormous library, and the gourmet meals the islandersprepare. Why, the day before I met you, Baudelaires, I shared Turkish coffee with anassociate who was saying that he’d never had better Oysters Rockefeller than duringhis time on the island. You must be having a wonderful time here.”“Janiceps,” Sunny said, restating an earlier opinion.“I think this place has changed since your associate was here,” said Klaus.“That’s probably true,” Kit said thoughtfully. “Thursday did say that the colonyhad suffered a schism, just as V.F.D. did.”“Another schism?” Violet asked.“Countless schisms have divided the world over the years,” Kit replied in thedarkness. “Do you think the history of V.F.D. is the only story in the world? But let’snot talk of the past, Baudelaires. Tell me how you made your way to these shores.”“The same way you did,” Violet said. “We were castaways. The only way wecould leave the Hotel Denouement was by boat.”“I knew you ran into danger there,” Kit said. “We were watching the skies. Wesaw the smoke and we knew you were signaling us that it wasn’t safe to join you.Thank you, Baudelaires. I knew you wouldn’t fail us. Tell me, is Dewey with you?”Kit’s words were almost more than the Baudelaires could stand. The smoke shehad seen, of course, was from the fire the children had set in the hotel’s laundryroom, which had quickly spread to the entire building, interrupting Count Olaf’s trialand endangering the lives of all the people inside, villains and volunteers alike. AndDewey, I’m sad to remind you, was not with the Baudelaires, but lying dead at thebottom of a pond, still clutching the harpoon that the three siblings had fired into hisheart. But Violet, Klaus, and Sunny could not bring themselves to tell Kit the wholestory, not now. They could not bear to tell her what had happened to Dewey, and toall the other noble people they had encountered, not yet. Not now, not yet, andperhaps not ever.“No,” Violet said. “Dewey isn’t here.”“Count Olaf is with us,” Klaus said, “but he’s locked up.”“Viper,” Sunny added.“Oh, I’m glad Ink is safe,” Kit said, and the Baudelaires thought they could almosthear her smile. “That’s my special nickname for the Incredibly Deadly Viper. Inkkept me good company on this raft after we were separated from the others.”“The Quagmires?” Klaus asked. “You found them?”“Yes,” Kit said, and coughed a bit. “But they’re not here.”“Maybe they’ll wash up here, too,” Violet said.“Maybe,” Kit said uncertainly. “And maybe Dewey will join us, too. We need asmany associates as we can if we’re going to return to the world and make sure thatjustice is served. But first, let’s find this colony I’ve heard so much about. I need ashower and a hot meal, and then I want to hear the whole story of what happened toyou.” She started to lower herself down from the raft, but then stopped with a cry ofpain.“You shouldn’t move,” Violet said quickly, glad for an excuse to keep Kit on thecoastal shelf. “Your foot’s been injured.”“Both my feet have been injured,” Kit corrected ruefully, lying back down on theraft. “The telegram device fell on my legs when the submarine was attacked. I needyour help, Baudelaires. I need to be someplace safe.”“We’ll do everything we can,” Klaus said.“Maybe help is on the way,” Kit said. “I can see someone coming.”The Baudelaires turned to look, and in the dark they saw a very tiny, very brightlight, skittering toward them from the west. At first the light looked like nothingmore than a firefly, darting here and there on the coastal shelf, but gradually thechildren could see it was a flashlight, around which several figures in white robeshuddled, walking carefully among the puddles and debris. The shine of the flashlightreminded Klaus of all of the nights he spent reading under the covers in theBaudelaire mansion, while outside the night made mysterious noises his parentsalways insisted were nothing more than the wind, even on windless evenings. Somemornings, his father would come into Klaus’s room to wake him up and find himasleep, still clutching his flashlight in one hand and his book in the other, and as theflashlight drew closer and closer, the middle Baudelaire could not help but think thatit was his father, walking across the coastal shelf to come to his children’s aid afterall this time. But of course it was not the Baudelaires’ father. The figures arrived atthe cube of books, and the children could see the faces of two islanders: Finn, whowas holding the flashlight, and Erewhon, who was carrying a large, covered basket.“Good evening, Baudelaires,” Finn said. In the dim light of the flashlight shelooked even younger than she was.“We brought you some supper,” Erewhon said, and held out the basket to thechildren. “We were concerned that you might be quite hungry out here.”“We are,” Violet admitted. The Baudelaires, of course, wished that the islandershad expressed their concern in front of Ishmael and the others, when the colony wasdeciding to abandon the children on the coastal shelf, but as Finn opened the basketand the children smelled the island’s customary dinner of onion soup, the children didnot want to look a gift horse in the mouth, a phrase which here means “turn down anoffer of a hot meal, no matter how disappointed they were in the person who wasoffering it.”“Is there enough for our friend?” Klaus asked. “She’s regained consciousness.”“I’m glad to hear it,” Finn said. “There’s enough food for everyone.”“As long as you keep the secret of our coming here,” Erewhon said. “Ishmaelmight not think it was proper.”“I’m surprised he doesn’t forbid the use of flashlights,” Violet said, as Finn handedher a coconut shell full of steaming soup.“Ishmael doesn’t forbid anything,” Finn said. “He’d never force me to throw thisflashlight away. However, he did suggest that I let the sheep take it to the arboretum.Instead I slipped it into my robe, as a secret, and Madame Nordoff has been secretlysupplying me with batteries in exchange for my secretly teaching her how to yodel,which Ishmael says might frighten the other islanders.”“And Mrs. Caliban secretly slipped me this picnic basket,” Erewhon said, “inexchange for my secretly teaching her the backstroke, which Ishmael says is not thecustomary way to swim.”“Mrs. Caliban?” said Kit, in the darkness. “Miranda Caliban is here?”“Yes,” Finn said. “Do you know her?”“I know her husband,” Kit said. “He and I stood together in a time of greatstruggle, and we’re still very good friends.”“Your friend must be a little confused after her difficult journey,” Erewhon said tothe Baudelaires, standing on tiptoes so she could hand Kit some soup. “Mrs.Caliban’s husband perished many years ago in the storm that brought her here.”“That’s impossible,” Kit said, reaching down to take the bowl from the young girl.“I just had Turkish coffee with him.”“Mrs. Caliban is not the sort to keep secrets,” Finn said. “That’s why she lives onthe island. It’s a safe place, far from the treachery of the world.”“Enigmorama,” Sunny said, putting her coconut shell of soup on the ground so shecould share it with the Incredibly Deadly Viper.“My sister means that it seems this island has plenty of secrets,” Klaus said,thinking wistfully of his commonplace book and all the secrets its pages contained.“I’m afraid we have one more secret to discuss,” Erewhon said. “Turn theflashlight off, Finn. We don’t want to be seen from the island.”Finn nodded, and turned the flashlight off. The Baudelaires had one last glimpse ofeach other before the darkness engulfed them, and for a moment everyone stood insilence, as if afraid to speak.Many, many years ago, when even the great-great-grandparents of the oldestperson you know were not even day-old infants, and when the city where theBaudelaires were born was nothing more than a handful of dirt huts, and the HotelDenouement nothing but an architectural sketch, and the faraway island had a name,and was not considered very faraway at all, there was a group of people known as theCimmerians. They were a nomadic people, which meant that they traveled constantly,and they often traveled at night, when the sun would not give them sunburn and whenthe coastal shelves in the area in which they lived were not flooded with water.Because they traveled in shadows, few people ever got a good look at theCimmerians, and they were considered sneaky and mysterious people, and to this daythings done in the dark tend to have a somewhat sinister reputation. A man digging ahole in his backyard during the afternoon, for instance, looks like a gardener, but aman digging a hole at night looks like he’s burying some terrible secret, and a womanwho gazes out of her window in the daytime appears to be enjoying the view, butlooks more like a spy if she waits until nightfall. The nighttime digger may actuallybe planting a tree to surprise his niece while the niece giggles at him from thewindow, and the morning window watcher may actually be planning to blackmail theso-called gardener as he buries the evidence of his vicious crimes, but thanks to theCimmerians, the darkness makes even the most innocent of activities seemsuspicious, and so in the darkness of the coastal shelf, the Baudelaires suspected thatthe question Finn asked was a sinister one, even though it could have been somethingone of their teachers might have asked in the classroom.“Do you know the meaning of the word mutiny’?” she asked, in a calm, quietvoice.Violet and Sunny knew that Klaus would answer, although they were pretty surethemselves what the word meant. “A mutiny is when a group of people take actionagainst a leader.”“Yes,” Finn said. “Professor Fletcher taught me the word.”“We are here to tell you that a mutiny will take place at breakfast,” said Erewhon.“More and more colonists are getting sick and tired of the way things are going onthe island, and Ishmael is the root of the trouble.”“Tuber?” Sunny asked.‘“Root of the trouble’ means ‘the cause of the islanders’ problems,’” Klausexplained.“Exactly,” Erewhon said, “and when Decision Day arrives we will finally have theopportunity to get rid of him.”“Rid of him?” Violet repeated, the phrase sounding sinister in the dark.“We’re going to force him aboard the outrigger right after breakfast,” Erewhonsaid, “and push him out to sea as the coastal shelf floods.”“A man traveling the ocean alone is unlikely to survive,” Klaus said.“He won’t be alone,” Finn said. “A number of islanders support Ishmael. Ifnecessary, we’ll force them to leave the island as well.”“How many?” Sunny asked.“It’s hard to know who supports Ishmael and who doesn’t,” Erewhon said, and thechildren heard the old woman sip from her seashell. “You’ve seen how he acts. Hesays he doesn’t force anyone, but everyone ends up agreeing with him anyway. Butno longer. At breakfast we’ll find out who supports him and who doesn’t.”“Erewhon says we’ll fight all day and all night if we have to,” Finn said.“Everyone will have to choose sides.”The children heard an enormous, sad sigh from the top of the raft of books. “Aschism,” Kit said quietly.“Gesundheit,” Erewhon said. “That’s why we’ve come to you, Baudelaires. Weneed all the help we can get.”“After the way Ishmael abandoned you, we figured you’d be on our side,” Finnsaid. “Don’t you agree he’s the root of the trouble?”The Baudelaires stood together in the silence, thinking about Ishmael and all theyknew about him. They thought of the way he had taken them in so kindly upon theirarrival on the island, but also how quickly he had abandoned them on the coastalshelf. They thought about how eager he had been to keep the Baudelaires safe, butalso how eager he was to lock Count Olaf in a bird cage. They thought about hisdishonesty about his injured feet, and about his secret apple eating, but as thechildren thought of all they knew about the facilitator, they also thought about howmuch they didn’t know, and after hearing both Count Olaf and Kit Snicket talk aboutthe history of the island, the Baudelaire orphans realized they did not know the wholestory. The children might agree that Ishmael was the root of the trouble, but theycould not be sure.“I don’t know,” Violet said.“You don’t know?” Erewhon repeated incredulously. “We brought you supper, andIshmael left you out here to starve, and you don’t know whose side you’re on?”“We trusted you when you said Count Olaf was a terrible person,” Finn said.“Why can’t you trust us, Baudelaires?”“Forcing Ishmael to leave the island seems a bit drastic,” Klaus said.“It’s a bit drastic to put a man in a cage,” Erewhon pointed out, “but I didn’t hearyou complaining then.”“Quid pro quo?” Sunny asked.“If we help you,” Violet translated, “will you help Kit?”“Our friend is injured,” Klaus said. “Injured and pregnant.”“And distraught,” Kit added weakly, from the top of the raft.“If you help us in our plan to defeat Ishmael,” Finn promised, “we’ll get her to asafe place.”“And if not?” Sunny asked.“We won’t force you, Baudelaires,” Erewhon said, sounding like the facilitator shewanted to defeat, “but Decision Day is approaching, and the coastal shelf will flood.You need to make a choice.”The Baudelaires did not say anything, and for a moment everyone stood in asilence broken only by Count Olaf’s snores. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were not interestedin being part of a schism, after witnessing all of the misery that followed the schism ofV.F.D., but they did not see a way to avoid it. Finn had said that they needed to make achoice, but choosing between living alone on a coastal shelf, endangering themselves andtheir injured friend, and participating in the island’s mutinous plan, did not feel like muchof a choice at all, and they wondered how many other people had felt this way, during thecountless schisms that had divided the world over the years.“We’ll help you,” Violet said finally. “What do you want us to do?”“We need you to sneak into the arboretum,” Finn said. “You mentioned yourmechanical abilities, Violet, and Klaus seems very well-read. All of the forbiddenitems we’ve scavenged over the years should come in very handy indeed.”“Even the baby should be able to cook something up,” Erewhon said.“But what do you mean?” Klaus asked. “What should we do with all the detritus?”“We need weapons, of course,” Erewhon said in the darkness.“We hope to force Ishmael off the island peacefully,” Finn said quickly, “butErewhon says we’ll need weapons, just in case. Ishmael will notice if we go to the farside of the island, but you three should be able to sneak over the brae, find or buildsome weapons in the arboretum, and bring them to us here before breakfast so we canbegin the mutiny.”“Absolutely not!” cried Kit, from the top of the raft. “I won’t hear of you puttingyour talents to such nefarious use, Baudelaires. I’m sure the island can solve itsdifficulties without resorting to violence.”“Did you solve your difficulties without resorting to violence?” Erewhon askedsharply. “Is that how you survived the great struggle you mentioned, and ended upshipwrecked on a raft of books?”“My history is not important,” Kit replied. “I’m worried about the Baudelaires.”“And we’re worried about you, Kit,” Violet said. “We need as many associates aswe can if we’re going to return to the world and make sure that justice is served.”“You need to be in a safe place to recuperate from your injury,” Klaus said.“And baby,” said Sunny.“That’s no reason to engage in treachery,” Kit said, but she did not sound so sure.Her voice was weak and faint, and the children heard the books rustling as she movedher injured feet uncomfortably.“Please help us,” Finn said, “and we’ll help your friend.”“There must be a weapon that can threaten Ishmael and his supporters,” Erewhonsaid, and now she did not sound like Ishmael. The Baudelaires had heard almost theexact same words from the imprisoned mouth of Count Olaf, and they shuddered tothink of the weapon he was hiding in the bird cage.Violet put down her empty soup bowl, and picked up her baby sister, while Klaustook the flashlight from the old woman. “We’ll be back as soon as we can, Kit,” theeldest Baudelaire promised. “Wish us luck.”The raft trembled as Kit uttered a long, sad sigh. “Good luck,” she said finally. “Iwish things were different, Baudelaires.”“So do we,” Klaus replied, and the three children followed the narrow beam of theflashlight back toward the colony that had abandoned them. Their footsteps madesmall splashes on the coastal shelf, and the Baudelaires heard the quiet slither of theIncredibly Deadly Viper, loyally following them on their errand. There was no sign ofa moon, and the stars were covered in clouds that remained from the passing storm,or perhaps were heralding a new one, so the entire world seemed to vanish outsidethe secret flashlight’s forbidden light. With each damp and uncertain step, thechildren felt heavier, as if their thoughts were stones that they had to carry to thearboretum, where all the forbidden items lay waiting for them. They thought aboutthe islanders, and the mutinous schism that would soon divide the colony in two.They thought about Ishmael, and wondered whether his secrets and deceptions meantthat he deserved to be at sea. And they thought about the Medusoid Mycelium,fermenting in the helmet in Olaf’s grasp, and wondered if the islanders woulddiscover that weapon before the Baudelaires built another. The children traveled inthe dark, just as so many other people had done before them, from the nomadictravels of the Cimmerians to the desperate voyages of the Quagmire triplets, who atthat very moment were in circumstances just as dark although quite a bit damper thanthe Baudelaires’, and as the children drew closer and closer to the island that hadabandoned them, their thoughts made them heavier and heavier, and the Baudelaireorphans wished things were very different indeed.CHAPTERNineThe phrase “in the dark,” as I’m sure you know, can refer not only to one’sshadowy surroundings, but also to the shadowy secrets of which one might beunaware. Every day, the sun goes down over all these secrets, and so everyone is inthe dark in one way or another. If you are sunbathing in a park, for instance, but youdo not know that a locked cabinet is buried fifty feet beneath your blanket, then youare in the dark even though you are not actually in the dark, whereas if you are on amidnight hike, knowing full well that several ballerinas are following close behindyou, then you are not in the dark even if you are in fact in the dark. Of course, it isquite possible to be in the dark in the dark, as well as to be not in the dark not in thedark, but there are so many secrets in the world that it is likely that you are always inthe dark about one thing or another, whether you are in the dark in the dark or in thedark not in the dark, although the sun can go down so quickly that you may be in thedark about being in the dark in the dark, only to look around and find yourself nolonger in the dark about being in the dark in the dark, but in the dark in the darknonetheless, not only because of the dark, but because of the ballerinas in the dark,who are not in the dark about the dark, but also not in the dark about the lockedcabinet, and you may be in the dark about the ballerinas digging up the lockedcabinet in the dark, even though you are no longer in the dark about being in the dark,and so you are in fact in the dark about being in the dark, even though you are not inthe dark about being in the dark, and so you may fall into the hole that the ballerinashave dug, which is dark, in the dark, and in the park.The Baudelaire orphans, of course, had been in the dark many times before theymade their way in the dark over the brae to the far side of the island, where the arboretumguarded its many, many secrets. There was the darkness of Count Olaf’s gloomy house,and the darkness of the movie theater where Uncle Monty had taken them to see awonderful film called Zombies in the Snow. There were the dark clouds of HurricaneHerman as it roared across Lake Lachrymose, and the darkness of the Finite Forest as atrain had taken the children to work at Lucky Smells Lumbermill. There were the darknights the children spent at Prufrock Preparatory School, participating in Special OrphanRunning Exercises, and the dark climbs up the elevator shaft of 667 Dark Avenue. Therewas the dark jail cell in which the children spent some time while living in the Village ofFowl Devotees, and the dark trunk of Count Olaf’s car, which had carried them fromHeimlich Hospital to the hinterlands, where the dark tents of the Caligari Carnival awaitedthem. There was the dark pit they had built high in the Mortmain Mountains, and the darkhatch they had climbed through in order to board the Queequeg, and the dark lobby of theHotel Denouement, where they thought their dark days might be over. There were the darkeyes of Count Olaf and his associates, and the dark notebooks of the Quagmire triplets,and all of the dark passageways the children had discovered, that led to the Baudelairemansion, and out of the Library of Records, and up to the V.F.D. Headquarters, and to thedark, dark depths of the sea, and all the dark passageways they hadn’t discovered, whereother people traveled on equally desperate errands. But most of all, the Baudelaire orphanshad been in the dark about their own sad history. They did not understand how Count Olafhad entered their lives, or how he had managed to remain there, hatching scheme afterscheme without anyone stopping him. They did not understand V.F.D., even when theyhad joined the organization themselves, or how the organization, with all of its codes,errands, and volunteers, had failed to defeat the wicked people who seemed to triumphagain and again, leaving each safe place in ruins. And they did not understand how theycould lose their parents and their home in a fire, and how this enormous injustice, this badbeginning to their sad history, was followed only by another injustice, and another, andanother. The Baudelaire orphans did not understand how injustice and treachery couldprosper, even this far from their home, on an island in the middle of a vast sea, and thathappiness and innocence— the happiness and innocence of that day on Briny Beach,before Mr. Poe brought them the dreadful news—could always be so far out of reach. TheBaudelaires were in the dark about the mystery of their own lives, which is why it wassuch a profound shock to think at last that these mysteries might be solved. TheBaudelaire orphans blinked in the rising sun, and gazed at the expanse of the arboretum,and wondered if they might not be in the dark any longer.“Library” is another word that can mean two different things, which means even ina library you cannot be safe from the confusion and mystery of the world. The mostcommon use of the word “library,” of course, refers to a collection of books ordocuments, such as the libraries the Baudelaires had encountered during their travelsand troubles, from the legal library of Justice Strauss to the Hotel Denouement,which was itself an enormous library—with, it turned out, another library hiddennearby. But the word “library” can also refer to a mass of knowledge or a source oflearning, just as Klaus Baudelaire is something of a library with the mass ofknowledge stored in his brain, or Kit Snicket, who was a source of learning for theBaudelaires as she told them about V.F.D. and its noble errands. So when I write thatthe Baudelaire orphans had found themselves in the largest library they had everseen, it is that definition of the word I am using, because the arboretum was anenormous mass of knowledge, and a source of learning, even without a single scrapof paper in sight. The items that had washed up on the shores of the island over theyears could answer any question the Baudelaires had, and thousands more questionsthey’d never thought of. Stretched out as far as the eye could see were piles ofobjects, heaps of items, towers of evidence, bales of materials, clusters of details,stacks of substances, hordes of pieces, arrays of articles, constellations of details,galaxies of stuff, and universes of things—an accumulation, an aggregation, acompilation, a concentration, a crowd, a herd, a flock, and a register of seeminglyeverything on Earth. There was everything the alphabet could hold—automobiles andalarm clocks, bandages and beads, cables and chimneys, discs and dominos, earmuffsand emery boards, fiddles and fabric, garrotes and glassware, hangers and husks,icons and instruments, jewelry and jogging shoes, kites and kernels, levers and lawnchairs, machines and magnets, noisemakers and needles, orthodontics and ottomans,pull toys and pillars, quarters and quivers, race cars and rucksacks, saws and skulls,teaspoons and ties, urns and ukuleles, valentines and vines, wigs and wires,xeranthemums and xylorimbas, yachts and yokes, zithers and zabras, a word whichhere means “small boats usually used off the coasts of Spain and Portugal”—as wellas everything that could hold the alphabet, from a cardboard box perfect for storingtwenty-six wooden blocks, to a chalkboard perfect for writing twenty-six letters.There were any number of things, from a single motorcycle to countless chopsticks,and things with every number on them, from license plates to calculators. There wereobjects from every climate, from snowshoes to ceiling fans; and for every occasion,from menorahs to soccer balls; and there were things you could use on certainoccasions in certain climates, such as a waterproof fondue set. There were inserts andouthouses, overpasses and underclothes, upholstery and down comforters, hotplatesand cold creams and cradles and coffins, hopelessly destroyed, somewhat damaged,in slight disrepair, and brand-new. There were objects the Baudelaires recognized,including a triangular picture frame and a brass lamp in the shape of a fish, and therewere objects the Baudelaires had never seen before, including the skeleton of anelephant and a glittering green mask one might wear as part of a dragonfly costume,and there were objects the Baudelaires did not know if they had seen before, such asa wooden rocking horse and a piece of rubber that looked like a fan belt. There wereitems that seemed to be part of the Baudelaires’ story, such as a plastic replica of aclown and a broken telegraph pole, and there were items that seemed part of someother story, such as a carving of a black bird and a gem that shone like an Indianmoon, and all the items, and all their stories, were scattered across the landscape insuch a way that the Baudelaire orphans thought that the arboretum had either beenorganized according to principles so mysterious they could not be discovered, or ithad not been organized at all. In short, the Baudelaire orphans had found themselvesin the largest library they had ever seen, but they did not know where to begin theirresearch. The children stood in awed silence and surveyed the endless landscape ofobjects and stories, and then looked up at the largest object of all, which towered overthe arboretum and covered it in shade. It was the apple tree, with a trunk as enormousas a mansion and branches as long as a city street, which sheltered the library fromthe frequent storms and offered its bitter apples to anyone who dared to pick one.“Words fail me,” Sunny said in a hushed whisper.“Me, too,” Klaus agreed. “I can’t believe what we’re seeing. The islanders told usthat everything eventually washes up on these shores, but I never imagined thearboretum would hold so many things.”Violet picked up an item that lay at her feet—a pink ribbon decorated with plasticdaisies—and began to wind it around her hair. To those who hadn’t been aroundViolet long, nothing would have seemed unusual, but those who knew her well knewthat when she tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes, it meant that thegears and levers of her inventing brain were whirring at top speed. “Think of what Icould build here,” she said. “I could build splints for Kit’s feet, a boat to take us offthe island, a filtration system so we could drink fresh water… .” Her voice trailed off,and she stared up at the branches of the tree. “I could invent anything andeverything.”Klaus picked up the object at his feet—a cape made of scarlet silk—and held it inhis hands. “There must be countless secrets in a place like this,” he said. “Evenwithout a book, I could investigate anything and everything.”Sunny looked around her. “Service a la Russe,” she said, which meant somethinglike, “Even with the simplest of ingredients, I could prepare an extremely elaboratemeal.”“I don’t know where to begin,” Violet said, running a hand along a pile of brokenwhite wood that looked like it had once been part of a gazebo.“We begin with weapons,” Klaus said grimly. “That’s why we’re here. Erewhonand Finn are waiting for us to help them mutiny against Ishmael.”The oldest Baudelaire shook her head. “It doesn’t seem right,” she said. “We can’tuse a place like this to start a schism.”“Maybe a schism is necessary,” Klaus said. “There are millions of items here thatcould help the colony, but thanks to Ishmael, they’ve all been abandoned here.”“No one forced anyone to abandon anything,” Violet said.“Peer pressure,” Sunny pointed out.“We can try a little peer pressure of our own,” Violet said firmly. “We’ve defeatedworse people than Ishmael with far fewer materials.”“But do we really want to defeat Ishmael?” Klaus asked. “He’s made the island asafe place, even if it is a little boring, and he kept Count Olaf away, even if he is alittle cruel. He has feet of clay, but I’m not sure he’s the root of the problem.”“What is the root of the problem?” Violet asked.“Ink,” Sunny said, but when her siblings turned to give her a quizzical look, theysaw that the youngest Baudelaire was not answering their question, but pointing atthe Incredibly Deadly Viper, who was slithering hurriedly away from the childrenwith its eyes darting this way and that and its tongue extended to sniff the air.“It appears to know where it’s going,” Violet said.“Maybe it’s been here before,” Klaus said.“Taylit,” Sunny said, which meant “Let’s follow the reptile and see where itheads.” Without waiting to see whether her siblings agreed, she hurried after thesnake, and Violet and Klaus hurried after her. The viper’s path was as curved andtwisted as the snake itself, and the Baudelaires found themselves scrambling over allsorts of discarded items, from a cardboard box, soaked through from the storm, thatwas full of something white and lacy, to a painted backdrop of a sunset, such asmight be used in the performance of an opera. The children could tell that the pathhad been traveled before, as the ground was covered in footprints. The snake wasslithering so quickly that the Baudelaires could not keep up, but they could follow thefootprints, which were dusted around the edges in white powder. It was dried clay, ofcourse, and in moments the children reached the end of the path, following inIshmael’s footsteps, and they arrived at the base of the apple tree just in time to seethe tail of the snake disappear into a gap in the tree’s roots. If you’ve ever stood at thebase of an old tree, then you know the roots are often close to the surface of the earth,and the curved angles of the roots can create a hollow space in the tree’s trunk. It wasinto this hollow space that the Incredibly Deadly Viper disappeared, and after thetiniest of pauses, it was into this space that the Baudelaire orphans followed,wondering what secrets they would find at the root of the tree that sheltered such amysterious place. First Violet, and then Klaus, and then Sunny stepped down throughthe gap into the secret space. It was dark underneath the roots of the tree, and for amoment the Baudelaires tried to adjust to the gloom and figure out what this placewas, but then the middle Baudelaire remembered the flashlight, and turned it on so heand his siblings would no longer be in the dark in the dark.The Baudelaire orphans were standing in a space much bigger than they wouldhave imagined, and much better furnished. Along one wall was a large stone benchlined with simple, clean tools, including several sharp-looking razor-blades, a glasspot of paste, and several wooden brushes with narrow, fine tips. Next to the wall wasan enormous bookcase, which was stuffed with books of all shapes and sizes, as wellas assorted documents that were stacked, rolled, and stapled with extreme care. Theshelves of the bookcase stretched away from the children past the beam of theflashlight and disappeared into the darkness, so there was no way of knowing howlong the bookcase was, or the number of books and documents it contained. Oppositethe bookcase stretched an elaborate kitchen, with a huge potbellied stove, severalporcelain sinks, and a tall, humming refrigerator, as well as a square wooden tablecovered in appliances ranging from a blender to a fondue set. Over the table hung arack from which dangled all manner of kitchen utensils and pots, as well as sprigs ofdried herbs, a variety of whole dried fish, and even a few cured meats, such as salamiand prosciutto, an Italian ham that the Baudelaire orphans had once enjoyed at aSicilian picnic the family had attended. Nailed to the wall was an impressive spicerack filled with jars of herbs and bottles of condiments, and a cupboard with glassdoors through which the children could see piles of plates, bowls, and mugs. Finally,in the center of this enormous space were two large, comfortable reading chairs, onewith a gigantic book on the seat, much taller than an atlas and much thicker than evenan unabridged dictionary, and the other just waiting for someone to sit down. Lastly,there was a curious device made of brass that looked like a large tube with a pair ofbinoculars at the bottom, which rose up into the thick canopy of roots that formed theceiling. As the Incredibly Deadly Viper hissed proudly, the way a dog might wag itstail after performing a difficult trick, the three children stared around the room, eachconcentrating on their area of expertise, a phrase which here means “the part of theroom in which each Baudelaire would most like to spend time.”Violet walked over to the brass device and peered into the eyes of the binoculars.“I can see the ocean,” she said in surprise. “This is an enormous periscope, muchbigger than the one in the Queequeg. It must run all the way up the trunk of the treeand jut out over the highest branch.”“But why would you want to look at the ocean from here?” Klaus asked.“From this height,” Violet explained, “you could see any storm clouds that mightbe heading this way. This is how Ishmael predicts the weather—not by magic, butwith scientific equipment.”“And these tools are used to repair books,” Klaus said. “Of course books wash upon the island—everything does, eventually. But the pages and bindings of the booksare often damaged by the storm that brought them, so Ishmael repairs them andshelves them here.” He picked up a dark blue notebook from the bench and held itup. “It’s my commonplace book,” he said. “He must have been making sure none ofthe pages were wet.”Sunny picked up a familiar object from the wooden table—her whisk—and held itto her nose.“Fritters,” she said. “With cinnamon.”“Ishmael walks to the arboretum to watch for storms, read books, and cook spicedfood,” Violet said. “Why would he pretend to be an injured facilitator who predictsthe weather through magic, claims that the island has no library, and prefers blandmeals?”Klaus walked to the two reading chairs and lifted the heavy, thick book. “Maybethis will tell us,” he said, and shone the flashlight so his sisters could see the long,somewhat wordy title printed on the front cover.“What does it mean?” Violet asked. “That title could mean anything.”Klaus noticed a thin piece of black cloth stuck in the book to mark someone’splace, and opened the book to that page. The bookmark was Violet’s hair ribbon,which the eldest Baudelaire quickly grabbed, as the pink ribbon with plastic daisieswas not to her taste. “I think it’s a history of the island,” Klaus said, “written like adiary. Look, here’s what the most recent entry says: ‘Yet another figure from theshadowy past has washed ashore—Kit Snicket (see page 667). Convinced the othersto abandon her, and the Baudelaires, who have already rocked the boat far too much,I fear. Also managed to have Count Olaf locked in a cage. Note to self: Why won’tanyone call me Ish?’”“Ishmael said he’d never heard of Kit Snicket,” Violet said, “but here he writesthat she’s a figure from the shadowy past.”“Six six seven,” Sunny said, and Klaus nodded. Handing the flashlight to his oldersister, he quickly turned the pages of the book, flipping back in history until hereached the page Ishmael had mentioned.“‘Inky has learned to lasso sheep,’” Klaus read, ‘“and last night’s storm washed upa postcard from Kit Snicket, addressed to Olivia Caliban. Kit, of course, is the sisterof…’”The middle Baudelaire’s voice trailed off, and his sisters stared at him curiously.“What’s wrong, Klaus?” Violet asked. “That entry doesn’t seem particularlymysterious.”“It’s not the entry,” Klaus said, so quietly that Violet and Sunny could scarcelyhear him. “It’s the handwriting.”“Familia?” Sunny asked, and all three Baudelaires stepped as close as they couldto one another. In silence, the children gathered around the beam of the flashlight, asif it were a warm campfire on a freezing night, and gazed down at the pages of theoddly titled book. Even the Incredibly Deadly Viper crawled up to perch on Sunny’sshoulders, as if it were as curious as the Baudelaire orphans to know who had writtenthose words so long ago.“Yes, Baudelaires,” said a voice from the far end of the room. “That’s yourmother’s handwriting.”CHAPTERTenIshmael stepped out of the darkness, running a hand along the shelves of thebookcase, and walked slowly toward the Baudelaire orphans. In the dim glow of theflashlight, the children could not tell if the facilitator was smiling or frowningthrough his wild, woolly beard, and Violet was reminded of something she’d almostentirely forgotten. A long time ago, before Sunny was born, Violet and Klaus hadbegun an argument at breakfast over whose turn it was to take out the garbage. It wasa silly matter, but one of those occasions when the people arguing are having toomuch fun to stop, and all day, the two siblings had wandered around the house, doingtheir assigned chores and scarcely speaking to each other. Finally, after a long, silentmeal, during which their parents tried to get them to reconcile— a word which heremeans “admit that it didn’t matter in the slightest whose turn it was, and that the onlyimportant thing was to get the garbage out of the kitchen before the smell spread tothe entire mansion”—Violet and Klaus were sent up to bed without dessert or evenfive minutes of reading. Suddenly, just as she was dropping off to sleep, Violet had anidea for an invention that meant no one would ever have to take out the garbage, andshe turned on a light and began to sketch out her idea on a pad of paper. She becameso interested in her invention that she did not listen for footsteps in the hallwayoutside, and so when her mother opened the door, she did not have time to turn outthe light and pretend to be asleep. Violet stared at her mother, and her mother staredback, and in the dim light the eldest Baudelaire could not see if her mother wassmiling or frowning—if she was angry at Violet for staying up past her bedtime, or ifshe didn’t mind after all. But then finally, Violet saw that her mother was carrying acup of hot tea. “Here you go, dear,” she said gently. “I know how star anise tea helpsyou think.” Violet took the steaming cup from her mother, and in that instant shesuddenly realized that it had been her turn to take out the garbage after all.Ishmael did not offer the Baudelaire orphans any tea, and when he flicked a switchon the wall, and lit up the secret space underneath the apple tree with electric lights,the children could see that he was neither smiling nor frowning, but exhibiting astrange combination of the two, as if he were as nervous about the Baudelaires asthey were about him. “I knew you’d come here,” he said finally, after a long silence.“It’s in your blood. I’ve never known a Baudelaire who didn’t rock the boat.”The Baudelaires felt all of their questions bump into each other in their heads, likefrantic sailors deserting a sinking ship. “What is this place?” Violet asked. “How didyou know our parents?”“Why have you lied to us about so many things?” Klaus demanded. “Why are youkeeping so many secrets?”“Who are you?” Sunny asked.Ishmael took another step closer to the Baudelaires and gazed down at Sunny, whogazed back at the facilitator, and then stared down at the clay still packed around hisfeet. “Did you know I used to be a schoolteacher?” he asked. “This was many yearsago, in the city. There were always a few children in my chemistry classes who hadthe same gleam in their eyes that you Baudelaires have. Those students always turnedin the most interesting assignments.” He sighed, and sat down on one of the readingchairs in the center of the room. “They also always gave me the most trouble. Iremember one child in particular, who had scraggly dark hair and just one eyebrow.”“Count Olaf,” Violet said.Ishmael frowned, and blinked at the eldest Baudelaire. “No,” he said. “This was alittle girl. She had one eyebrow and, thanks to an accident in her grandfather’slaboratory, only one ear. She was an orphan, and she lived with her siblings in ahouse owned by a terrible woman, a violent drunkard who was famous for havingkilled a man in her youth with nothing but her bare hands and a very ripe cantaloupe.The cantaloupe was grown on a farm that is no longer in operation, the Lucky SmellsMelon Farm, which was owned by—”“Sir,” Klaus said.Ishmael frowned again. “No,” he said. “The farm was owned by two brothers, oneof whom was later murdered in a small village, where three innocent children wereaccused of the crime.”“Jacques,” Sunny said.“No,” Ishmael said with another frown. “There was some argument about hisname, actually, as he appeared to use several names depending on what he waswearing. In any case, the student in my class began to be very suspicious about thetea her guardian would pour for her when she got home from school. Rather thandrink it, she would dump it into a house-plant that had been used to decorate a wellknown stylish restaurant with a fish theme.”“Cafe Salmonella,” Violet said.“No,” Ishmael said, and frowned once more. “The Bistro Smelt. Of course, mystudent realized she couldn’t keep feeding tea to the house-plant, particularly after itwithered away and the houseplant’s owner was whisked off to Peru aboard amysterious ship.”“The Prospero” Klaus said.Ishmael offered the youngsters yet another frown. “Yes,” he said, “although at thetime the ship was called the Pericles. But my student didn’t know that. She onlywanted to avoid being poisoned, and I had an idea that an antidote might be hidden—”“Yaw,” Sunny interrupted, and her siblings nodded in agreement. By “yaw,” theyoungest Baudelaire meant “Ishmael’s story is tangential,” a word which here means“answering questions other than the ones the Baudelaires had asked.”“We want to know what’s going on here on the island, at this very moment,” Violetsaid, “not what happened in a classroom many years ago.”“But what is happening now and what happened then are part of the same story,”Ishmael said. “If I don’t tell you how I came to prefer tea that’s as bitter aswormwood, then you won’t know how I came to have a very important conversationwith a waiter in a lakeside town. And if I don’t tell you about that conversation, thenyou won’t know how I ended up on a certain bathyscaphe, or how I ended upshipwrecked here, or how I came to meet your parents, or anything else contained inthis book.” He took the heavy volume from Klaus’s hands and ran his fingers alongthe spine, where the long, somewhat wordy title was printed in gold block letters.“People have been writing stories in this book since the first castaways washed up onthe island, and all the stories are connected in one way or another. If you ask onequestion, it will lead you to another, and another, and another. It’s like peeling anonion.”“But you can’t read every story, and answer every question,” Klaus said, “even ifyou’d like to.”Ishmael smiled and tugged at his beard. “That’s just what your parents told me,”he said. “When I arrived here they’d been on the island a few months, but they’dbecome the colony’s facilitators, and had suggested some new customs. Your fatherhad suggested that a few castaway construction workers install the periscope in thetree, to search for storms, and your mother had suggested that a shipwrecked plumberdevise a water filtration system, so the colony could have fresh water, right from thekitchen sink. Your parents had begun a library from all the documents that were here,and were adding hundreds of stories to the commonplace book. Gourmet meals wereserved, and your parents had convinced some of the other castaways to expand thisunderground space.” He gestured to the long bookshelf, which disappeared into thedarkness. “They wanted to dig a passageway that would lead to a marine researchcenter and rhetorical advice service some miles away.” The Baudelaires exchangedamazed looks. Captain Widdershins had described such a place, and in fact thechildren had spent some desperate hours in its ruined basement. “You mean if wewalk along the bookcase,” Klaus said, “we’ll reach Anwhistle Aquatics?”Ishmael shook his head. “The passageway was never finished,” he said, “and it’s agood thing, too. The research center was destroyed in a fire, which might have spreadthrough the passageway and reached the island. And it turned out that a very deadlyfungus was contained in that place. I shudder to think what might happen if theMedusoid Mycelium ever reached these shores.”The Baudelaires looked at one another again, but said nothing, preferring to keepone of their secrets even as Ishmael told them some of his own. The story of theBaudelaire children may have connected with Ishmael’s story of the spores containedin the diving helmet Count Olaf was hiding under his gown in the bird cage in whichhe was a prisoner, but the siblings saw no reason to volunteer this information.A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEnd“Some islanders thought the passage was a wonderful idea,” Ishmael continued.“Your parents wanted to carry all of the documents that had washed up here toAnwhistle Aquatics, where they might be sent to a sub-sub-librarian who had a secretlibrary. Others wanted to keep the island safe, far from the treachery of the world. Bythe time I arrived, some islanders wanted to mutiny, and abandon your parents on thecoastal shelf.” The facilitator heaved a great sigh, and closed the heavy book in hislap. “I walked into the middle of this story,” he said, “just as you walked into themiddle of mine. Some of the islanders had found weapons in the detritus, and thesituation might have become violent if I hadn’t convinced the colony to simplyabandon your parents. We allowed them to pack a few books into a fishing boat yourfather had built, and in the morning they left with a few of their comrades as thecoastal shelf flooded. They left behind everything they’d created here, from theperiscope I use to predict the weather to the commonplace book where I continuetheir research.”“You drove our parents away?” Violet asked in amazement.“They were very sad to go,” Ishmael said. “Your mother was pregnant with you,Violet, and after all of their years with V.F.D. your parents weren’t sure they wantedtheir children exposed to the world’s treachery. But they didn’t understand that if thepassageway had been completed, you would have been exposed to the world’streachery in any case. Sooner or later, everyone’s story has an unfortunate event ortwo—a schism or a death, a fire or a mutiny, the loss of a home or the destruction of atea set. The only solution, of course, is to stay as far away from the world as possibleand lead a safe, simple life.”“That’s why you keep so many items away from the others,” Klaus said.“It depends on how you look at it,” Ishmael said. “I wanted this place to be as safeas possible, so when I became the island’s facilitator, I suggested some new customsmyself. I moved the colony to the other side of the island, and I trained the sheep todrag the weapons away, and then the books and mechanical devices, so none of theworld’s detritus would interfere with our safety. I suggested we all dress alike, andeat the same meals, to avoid any future schisms.”“Jojishoji,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “I don’t believe thatabridging the freedom of expression and the free exercise thereof is the proper way torun a community.”“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “The other islanders couldn’t have agreed with thesenew customs.”“I didn’t force them,” Ishmael said, “but, of course, the coconut cordial helped.The fermented beverage is so strong that it serves as a sort of opiate for the peoplehere.”“Lethe?” Sunny asked.“An opiate is something that makes people drowsy and inactive,” Klaus said, “oreven forgetful.”“The more cordial the islanders drank,” Ishmael explained, “the less they thoughtabout the past, or complained about the things they were missing.”“That’s why hardly anyone leaves this place,” Violet said. “They’re too drowsy tothink about leaving.”“Occasionally someone leaves,” Ishmael said, and looked down at the IncrediblyDeadly Viper, who gave him a brief hiss. “Some time ago, two women sailed off withthis very snake, and a few years later, a man named Thursday left with a fewcomrades.”“So Thursday is alive,” Klaus said, “just like Kit said.”“Yes,” Ishmael admitted, “but at my suggestion, Miranda told her daughter that hedied in a storm, so she wouldn’t worry about the schism that divided her parents.”“Electra,” Sunny said, which meant “A family shouldn’t keep such terriblesecrets,” but Ishmael did not ask for a translation.“Except for those troublemakers,” he said, “everyone has stayed here. And whyshouldn’t they? Most of the castaways are orphans, like me, and like you. I knowyour story, Baudelaires, from all the newspaper articles, police reports, financialnewsletters, telegrams, private correspondence, and fortune cookies that have washedup here. You’ve been wandering this treacherous world since your story began, andyou’ve never found a place as safe as this one. Why don’t you stay? Give up yourmechanical inventions and your reading and your cooking. Forget about Count Olafand V.F.D. Leave your ribbon, and your commonplace book, and your whisk, andyour raft library, and lead a simple, safe life on our shores.”“What about Kit?” Violet asked.“In my experience, the Snickets are as much trouble as the Baudelaires,” Ishmaelsaid. “That’s why I suggested you leave her on the coastal shelf, so she wouldn’tmake trouble for the colony. But if you can be convinced to choose a simpler life, Isuppose she can, too.”The Baudelaires looked at one another doubtfully. They already knew that Kitwanted to return to the world and make sure justice was served, and as volunteersthey should have been eager to join her. But Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were not surethey could abandon the first safe place they had found, even if it was a little dull.“Can’t we stay here,” Klaus asked, “and lead a more complicated life, with the itemsand documents here in the arboretum?”“And spices?” Sunny added.“And keep them a secret from the other islanders?” Ishmael said with a frown.“That’s what you’re doing,” Klaus couldn’t help pointing out. “All day long yousit in your chair and make sure the island is safe from the detritus of the world, butthen you sneak off to the arboretum on your perfectly healthy feet and write in acommonplace book while snacking on bitter apples. You want everyone to lead asimple, safe life—everyone except yourself.”“No one should lead the life I lead,” Ishmael said, with a long, sad tug on hisbeard. “I’ve spent countless years cataloging all of the objects that have washed upon these shores and all the stories those objects tell. I’ve repaired all the documentsthat the storms have damaged, and taken notes on every detail. I’ve read more of theworld’s treacherous history than almost anyone, and as one of my colleagues oncesaid, this history is indeed little more than the register of crimes, follies, andmisfortunes of mankind.”“Gibbon,” Sunny said. She meant something like, “We want to read this history, nomatter how miserable it is,” and her siblings were quick to translate. But Ishmaeltugged at his beard again, and shook his head firmly at the three children.“Don’t you see?” he asked. “I’m not just the island’s facilitator. I’m the island’sparent. I keep this library far away from the people under my care, so that they willnever be disturbed by the world’s terrible secrets.” The facilitator reached into apocket of his robe and held out a small object. The Baudelaires saw that it was anornate ring, emblazoned with the initial R, and stared at it, quite puzzled.Ishmael opened the enormous volume in his lap, and turned a few pages to readfrom his notes. “This ring,” he said, “once belonged to the Duchess of Winnipeg,who gave it to her daughter, who was also the Duchess of Winnipeg, who gave it toher daughter, and so on and so on and so on. Eventually, the last Duchess ofWinnipeg joined V.F.D., and gave it to Kit Snicket’s brother. He gave it to yourmother. For reasons I still don’t understand, she gave it back to him, and he gave it toKit, and Kit gave it to your father, who gave it to your mother when they weremarried. She kept it locked in a wooden box that could only be opened by a key thatwas kept in a wooden box that could only be opened by a code that Kit Snicketlearned from her grandfather. The wooden box turned to ashes in the fire thatdestroyed the Baudelaire mansion, and Captain Widdershins found the ring in thewreckage only to lose it in a storm at sea, which eventually washed it onto ourshores.”“Neiklot?” Sunny asked, which meant “Why are you telling us about this ring?”“The point of the story isn’t the ring,” Ishmael said. “It’s the fact that you’ve neverseen it until this moment. This ring, with its long secret history, was in your home foryears, and your parents never mentioned it. Your parents never told you about theDuchess of Winnipeg, or Captain Widdershins, or the Snicket siblings, or V.F.D. Yourparents never told you they’d lived here, or that they were forced to leave, or anyother details of their own unfortunate history. They never told you their whole story.”“Then let us read that book,” Klaus said, “so we can find out for ourselves.”Ishmael shook his head. “You don’t understand,” he said, which is something themiddle Baudelaire never liked to be told. “Your parents didn’t tell you these thingsbecause they wanted to shelter you, just as this apple tree shelters the items in thearboretum from the island’s frequent storms, and just as I shelter the colony from thecomplicated history of the world. No sensible parent would let their child read eventhe title of this dreadful, sad chronicle, when they could keep them far from thetreachery of the world instead. Now that you’ve ended up here, don’t you want torespect their wishes?” He closed the book again, and stood up, gazing at all threeBaudelaires in turn. “Just because your parents have died,” he said quietly, “doesn’tmean they’ve failed you. Not if you stay here and lead the life they wanted you tolead.” Violet thought of her mother again, bringing the cup of star anise tea on thatrestless evening. “Are you sure this is what our parents would have wanted?” sheasked, not knowing if she could trust his answer.“If they didn’t want to keep you safe,” he said, “they would have told youeverything, so you could add another chapter to this unfortunate history.” He put thebook down on the reading chair, and put the ring in Violet’s hand. “You belong here,Baudelaires, on this island and under my care. I’ll tell the islanders that you’vechanged your minds, and that you’re abandoning your troublesome past.”“Will they support you?” Violet asked, thinking of Erewhon and Finn and theirplan to mutiny at breakfast.“Of course they will,” Ishmael said. “The life we lead here on the island is betterthan the treachery of the world. Leave the arboretum with me, children, and you can joinus for breakfast.”“And cordial,” Klaus said.“No apples,” Sunny said.Ishmael gave the children one last nod, and led the children up through the gap inthe roots of the tree, turning off the lights as he went. The Baudelaires stepped outinto the arboretum, and looked back one last time at the secret space. In the dim lightthey could just make out the shape of the Incredibly Deadly Viper, who slithered overIshmael’s commonplace book and followed the children into the morning air. The sunfiltered through the shade of the enormous apple tree, and shone on the gold blockletters on the spine of the book. The children wondered whether the letters had beenprinted there by their parents, or perhaps by the previous writer of the commonplacebook, or the writer before that, or the writer before that. They wondered how manystories the oddly titled history contained, and how many people had gazed at the goldlettering before paging through the previous crimes, follies, and misfortunes andadding more of their own, like the thin layers of an onion. As they walked out of thearboretum, led by their clay-footed facilitator, the Baudelaire orphans wonderedabout their own unfortunate history, and that of their parents and all the othercastaways who had washed up on the shores of the island, adding chapter uponchapter to A Series of Unfortunate Events.CHAPTERElevenPerhaps one night, when you were very small, someone tucked you into bed andread you a story called “The Little Engine That Could,” and if so then you have myprofound sympathies, as it is one of the most tedious stories on Earth. The storyprobably put you right to sleep, which is the reason it is read to children, so I willremind you that the story involves the engine of a train that for some reason has theability to think and talk. Someone asks the Little Engine That Could to do a difficulttask too dull for me to describe, and the engine isn’t sure it can accomplish this, but itbegins to mutter to itself, “I think I can, I think I can, I think I can,” and before long ithas muttered its way to success. The moral of the story is that if you tell yourself youcan do something, then you can actually do it, a moral easily disproved if you tellyourself that you can eat nine pints of ice cream in a single sitting, or that you canshipwreck yourself on a distant island simply by setting off in a rented canoe withholes sawed in it.I only mention the story of the Little Engine That Could so that when I say that theBaudelaire orphans, as they left the arboretum with Ishmael and headed back towardthe island colony, were on board the Little Engine That Couldn’t, you will understandwhat I mean. For one thing, the children were being dragged back to Ishmael’s tenton the large wooden sleigh, helmed by Ishmael in his enormous clay chair anddragged by the island’s wild sheep, and if you have ever wondered why horse-drawncarriages and dogsleds are far more common modes of travel than sheep-draggedsleighs, it is because sheep are not well-suited for employment in the transportationindustry. The sheep meandered and detoured, lollygagged and moseyed, andoccasionally stopped to nibble on wild grass or simply breathe in the morning air, andIshmael tried to convince the sheep to go faster through his facilitation skills, ratherthan through standard shepherding procedures. “I don’t want to force you,” he keptsaying, “but perhaps you sheep could go a bit faster,” and the sheep would merelystare blankly at the old man and keep shuffling along.But the Baudelaire orphans were on board the Little Engine That Couldn’t notonly because of the sheep’s languor—a word which here means “inability to pull alarge, wooden sleigh at a reasonable pace”—but because their own thoughts were notspurring them to action. Unlike the engine in the tedious story, no matter what Violet,Klaus, and Sunny told themselves, they could not imagine a successful solution totheir difficulties. The children tried to tell themselves that they would do as Ishmaelhad suggested, and lead a safe life on the colony, but they could not imagineabandoning Kit Snicket on the coastal shelf, or letting her return to the world to seethat justice would be served without accompanying her on this noble errand. Thesiblings tried to tell themselves that they would obey their parents’ wishes, and staysheltered from their unfortunate history, but they did not think that they could keepthemselves away from the arboretum, or from reading what their parents had writtenin the enormous book. The Baudelaires tried to tell themselves that they would joinErewhon and Finn in the mutiny at breakfast, but they could not picture threateningthe facilitator and his supporters with weapons, particularly because they had notbrought any from the arboretum. They tried to tell themselves that at least they couldbe glad that Count Olaf was not a threat, but they could not quite approve of hisbeing locked in a bird cage, and they shuddered to think of the fungus hidden in hisgown and the scheme hidden in his head. And, throughout the entire journey over thebrae and back toward the beach, the three children tried to tell themselves thateverything was all right, but of course everything was not all right. Everything wasall wrong, and Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not quite know how a safe place, farfrom the treachery of the world, had become so dangerous and complicated as soonas they had arrived. The Baudelaire orphans sat in the sleigh, staring at Ishmael’sclay-covered clay feet, and no latter how many times they thought they could, theythought they could, they thought they could think of an end to their troubles, theyknew it simply was not the case.Finally, however, the sheep dragged the sleigh across the beach’s white sands andthrough the opening of the enormous tent. Once again, the joint was hopping, but thegathered islanders were in the midst of an argy-bargy, a word for “argument” that isfar less cute than it sounds. Despite the presence of an opiate in seashells danglingfrom the waists of every colonist, the islanders were anything but drowsy andinactive. Alonso was grabbing the arm of Willa, who was shrieking in annoyancewhile stepping on Dr. Kurtz’s foot. Sherman’s face was even redder than usual as hethrew sand in the face of Mr. Pitcairn, who appeared to be trying to bite Brewster’sfinger. Professor Fletcher was shouting at Ariel, and Ms. Marlow was stomping herfeet at Calypso, and Madame Nordoff and Rabbi Bligh seemed ready to beginwrestling on the sand. Byam twirled his mustache at Ferdinand, while Robinsontugged his beard at Larsen and Weyden seemed to tear out her red hair for no reasonat all. Jonah and Sadie Bellamy were standing face-to-face arguing, while Friday andMrs. Caliban were standing back-to-back as if they would never speak to each otheragain, and all the while Omeros stood near Ishmael’s chair with his hands heldsuspiciously behind his back. While Ishmael gaped at the islanders in amazement, thethree children stepped off the sleigh and walked quickly toward Erewhon and Finn,who were looking at them expectantly.“Where were you?” Finn said. “We waited as long as we could for you to return,but we had to leave your friend behind and begin the mutiny.”“You left Kit out there alone?” Violet said. “You promised you’d stay with her.”“And you promised us weapons,” said Erewhon. “Where are they, Baudelaires?”“We don’t have any,” Klaus admitted. “Ishmael was at the arboretum.”“Count Olaf was right,” Erewhon said. “You failed us, Baudelaires.”“What do you mean, ‘Count Olaf was right’?” Violet demanded.“What do you mean, ‘Ishmael was at the arboretum’?” Finn demanded.“What do you mean, what do I mean?” Erewhon demanded.“What you mean what you mean what I mean?” Sunny demanded.“Please, everyone!” Ishmael cried from his clay chair. “I suggest we all take a fewsips of cordial and discuss this cordially!”“I’m tired of drinking cordial,” Professor Fletcher said, “and I’m tired of yoursuggestions, Ishmael!”“Call me Ish,” the facilitator said.“I’m calling you a bad facilitator!” retorted Calypso.“Please, everyone!” Ishmael cried again, with a nervous tug at his beard. “What isall this argy-bargy about?”“I’ll tell you what it’s about,” Alonso said. “I washed up on these shores manyyears ago, after enduring a terrible storm and a dreadful political scandal.”“So what?” Rabbi Bligh asked. “Eventually, everyone washes up on these shores.”“I wanted to leave my unfortunate history behind,” Alonso said, “and live apeaceful life free from trouble. But now there are some colonists talking of mutiny. Ifwe’re not careful, this island will become as treacherous as the rest of the world!”“Mutiny?” Ishmael said in horror. “Who dares talk of mutiny?”“I dare,” Erewhon said. “I’m tired of your facilitation, Ishmael. I washed ashore onthis island after living on another island even farther away. I was tired of a peacefullife, and ready for adventure. But whenever anything exciting arrives on this island,you immediately have it thrown into the arboretum!”“It depends on how you look at it,” Ishmael protested. “I don’t force anyone tothrow anything away.”“Ishmael is right!” Ariel cried. “Some of us have had enough adventure for alifetime! I washed up on these shores after finally escaping from prison, where I haddisguised myself as a young man for years! I’ve stayed here for my own safety, not toparticipate in more dangerous schemes!”“Then you should join our mutiny!” Sherman cried. “Ishmael is not to be trusted!We abandoned the Baudelaires on the coastal shelf, and now he’s brought themback!”“The Baudelaires never should have been abandoned in the first place!” Ms.Marlow cried. “All they wanted to do was help their friend!”“Their friend is suspicious,” claimed Mr. Pitcairn. “She arrived on a raft of books.”“So what?” said Weyden. “I arrived on a raft of books myself.”“But you abandoned them,” Professor Fletcher pointed out.“She did nothing of the sort!” cried Larsen. “You helped her hide them, so youcould force those children to read!”“We wanted to learn to read!” Friday insisted.“You’re reading?” Mrs. Caliban gasped in astonishment.“You shouldn’t be reading!” cried Madame Nordoff.“Well, you shouldn’t be yodeling!” cried Dr. Kurtz.“You’re yodeling?” Rabbi Bligh asked in astonishment. “Maybe we should have amutiny after all!”“Yodeling is better than carrying a flashlight!” Jonah cried, pointing at Finnaccusingly.“Carrying a flashlight is better than hiding a picnic basket!” Sadie cried, pointingat Erewhon.“Hiding a picnic basket is better than pocketing a whisk!” Erewhon said, pointingat Sunny.“These secrets will destroy us!” Ariel said. “Life here is supposed to be simple!”“There’s nothing wrong with a complicated life,” said Byam. “I lived a simple lifeas a sailor for many years, and I was bored to tears until I was shipwrecked.”“Bored to tears?” Friday said in astonishment. “All I want is the simple life mymother and father had together, without arguing or keeping secrets.”“That’s enough,” Ishmael said quickly. “I suggest that we stop arguing.”“I suggest we continue to argue!” cried Erewhon.“I suggest we abandon Ishmael and his supporters!” cried Professor Fletcher.“I suggest we abandon the mutineers!” cried Calypso.“I suggest better food!” cried another islander.“I suggest more cordial!” cried another.“I suggest a more attractive robe!”“I suggest a proper house instead of a tent!”“I suggest fresh water!”“I suggest eating bitter apples!”“I suggest chopping down the apple tree!”“I suggest burning up the outrigger!”“I suggest a talent show!”“I suggest reading a book!”“I suggest burning all books!”“I suggest yodeling!”“I suggest forbidding yodeling!”“I suggest a safe place!”“I suggest a complicated life!”“I suggest it depends on how you look at it!”“I suggest justice!”“I suggest breakfast!”“I suggest we stay and you leave!”“I suggest you stay and we leave!”“I suggest we return to Winnipeg!”The Baudelaires looked at one another in despair as the mutinous schism workedits way through the colony. Seashells hung open at the waists of the islanders, butthere was no cordiality evident as the islanders turned against one another in fury,even if they were friends, or members of the same family, or shared a history or asecret organization. The siblings had seen angry crowds before, of course, from themob psychology of the citizens in the Village of Fowl Devotees to the blind justice ofthe trial at the Hotel Denouement, but they had never seen a community divide sosuddenly and so completely. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny watched the schism unfold andcould imagine what the other schisms must have been like, from the schism that splitV.F.D., to the schism that drove their parents away from the very same island, to allthe other schisms in the world’s sad history, with every person suggesting somethingdifferent, every story like a layer of an onion, and every unfortunate event like achapter in an enormous book. The Baudelaires watched the terrible argy-bargy andwondered how they could have hoped the island would be a safe place, far from thetreachery of the world, when eventually every treachery washed up on its shores, likea castaway tossed by a storm at sea, and divided the people who lived there. Thearguing voices of the islanders grew louder and louder, with everyone suggestingsomething but nobody listening to anyone else’s suggestions, until the schism was adeafening roar that was finally broken by the loudest voice of all.“SILENCE!” bellowed a figure who entered the tent, and the islanders stoppedtalking at once, and stared in amazement at the person who stood glaring at them in along dress that bulged at the belly.“What are you doing here?” gasped someone from the back of the tent. “Weabandoned you on the coastal shelf!”The figure strode into the middle of the tent, and I’m sorry to tell you that it wasnot Kit Snicket, who was still in a long dress that bulged at the belly on top of herlibrary raft, but Count Olaf, whose bulging belly, of course, was the diving helmetcontaining the Medusoid Mycelium, and whose orange and yellow dress theBaudelaires suddenly recognized as the dress Esmé Squalor wore on top of theMortmain Mountains, a hideous thing fashioned to look like an enormous fire, whichhad somehow washed onto the island’s shores like everything else. As Olaf paused togive the siblings a particularly wicked smile, the children tried to imagine the secrethistory of Esme’s dress, and how, like the ring Violet still held in her hand, it hadreturned to the Baudelaires’story after all this time.“You can’t abandon me,” the villain snarled to the islander. “I’m the king of OlafLand.”“This isn’t Olaf-Land,” Ishmael said, with a stern tug on his beard, “and you’re noking, Olaf.”Count Olaf threw back his head and laughed, his tattered dress quivering in mirth,a phrase which here means “making unpleasant rustling noises.” With a sneer, hepointed at Ishmael, who still sat in the chair. “Oh, Ish,” he said, his eyes shiningbright, “I told you many years ago that I would triumph over you someday, and at lastthat day has arrived. My associate with the weekday for a name told me that youwere still hiding out on this island, and—”“Thursday,” Mrs. Caliban said.Olaf frowned, and blinked at the freckled woman. “No,” he said. “Monday. Shewas trying to blackmail an old man who was involved in a political scandal.”“Gonzalo,” Alonso said.Olaf frowned again. “No,” he said. “We’d gone bird-watching, this old man and I,when we decided to rob a sealing schooner owned by-”“Humphrey,” Weyden said.“No,” Olaf said with another frown. “There was some argument about his name,actually, as a baby adopted by his orphaned children also bore the same name.”“Bertrand,” Omeros said.“No,” Olaf said, and frowned yet another time. “The adoption papers were hiddenin the hat of a banker who had been promoted to Vice President in Charge of OrphanAffairs.”“Mr. Poe?” asked Sadie.“Yes,” Olaf said with a scowl, “although at the time he was better known under hisstage name. But I’m not here to discuss the past. I’m here to discuss the future. Yourmutineering islanders let me out of this cage, Ishmael, to force you off the island andcrown me as king!”“King?” Erewhon said. “That wasn’t the plan, Olaf.”“If you want to live, old woman,” Olaf said rudely, “I suggest that you dowhatever I say.”“You’re already giving us suggestions?” Brewster said incredulously. “You’re justlike Ishmael, although your outfit is prettier.”“Thank you,” Count Olaf said, with a wicked smile, “but there’s another importantdifference between me and this foolish facilitator.”“Your tattoo?” Friday guessed.“No,” Count Olaf said, with a frown. “If you were to wash the clay off Ishmael’sfeet, you’d see he has the same tattoo as I do.”“Eyeliner?” guessed Madame Nordoff.“No,” Count Olaf said sharply. “The difference is that Ishmael is unarmed. Heabandoned his weapons long ago, during the V.F.D. schism, refusing to use violenceof any sort. But today, you’ll all see how foolish he is.” He paused, and ran his filthyhands along his bulging belly before turning to the facilitator, who was takingsomething from Omeros’s hands. “I have the only weapon that can threaten you andyour supporters,” he bragged. “I’m the king of Olaf-Land, and there’s nothing youand your sheep can do about it.”“Don’t be so sure about that,” Ishmael said, and raised an object in the air soeveryone could see it. It was the harpoon gun that had washed ashore with Olaf andthe Baudelaires, after being used to fire at crows at the Hotel Denouement, and at aself-sustaining hot air mobile home in the Village of Fowl Devotees, and at a cottoncandy machine at a county fair when the Baudelaires’ parents were very, very young.Now the weapon was adding another chapter to its secret history, and was pointingright at Count Olaf. “I had Omeros keep this weapon handy,” Ishmael said, “insteadof tossing it in the arboretum, because I thought you might escape from that cage,Count Olaf, just as I escaped from the cage you put me in when you set fire to myhome.”“I didn’t set that fire,” Count Olaf said, his eyes shining bright.“I’ve had enough of your lies,” Ishmael said, and stood up from his chair.Realizing that the facilitator’s feet were not injured after all, the islanders gasped,which requires a large intake of breath, a dangerous thing to do if spores of a deadlyfungus are in the air. “I’m going to do what I should have done years ago, Olaf, andslaughter you. I’m going to fire this harpoon gun right into that bulging belly ofyours!”“No!” screamed the Baudelaires in unison, but even the combined voices of thethree children were not as loud as Count Olaf’s villainous laughter, and the facilitatornever heard the children’s cry as he pulled the bright red trigger of this terribleweapon. The children heard a click! and then a whoosh! as the harpoon was fired,and then, as it struck Count Olaf right where Ishmael had promised, they heard theshattering of glass, and the Medusoid Mycelium, with its own secret history oftreachery and violence, was free at last to circulate in the air, even in this safe placeso far from the world. Everyone in the tent gasped—islanders and colonists, men andwomen, children and orphans, volunteers and villains and everyone in between.Everyone breathed in the spores of the deadly fungus as Count Olaf toppledbackward onto the sand, still laughing even as he gasped himself, and in an instantthe schism of the island was over, because everyone in this place—including, ofcourse, the Baudelaire orphans—was suddenly part of the same unfortunate event.CHAPTERTwelveIt is a curious thing, but as one travels the world getting older and older, it appearsthat happiness is easier to get used to than despair. The second time you have a root beerfloat, for instance, your happiness at sipping the delicious concoction may be not quite asenormous as when you first had a root beer float, and the twelfth time your happiness maybe still less enormous, until root beer floats begin to offer you very little happiness at all,because you have become used to the taste of vanilla ice cream and root beer mixedtogether. However, the second time you find a thumbtack in your root beer float, yourdespair is much greater than the first time, when you dismissed the thumbtack as a freakaccident rather than part of the scheme of the soda jerk, a phrase which here means “icecream shop employee who is trying to injure your tongue,” and by the twelfth time youfind a thumbtack your despair is even greater still, until you can hardly utter the phrase“root beer float” without bursting into tears. It is almost as if happiness is an acquiredtaste, like coconut cordial or ceviche, to which you can eventually become accustomed,but despair is something surprising each time you encounter it. As the glass shattered inthe tent, the Baudelaire orphans stood and stared at the standing figure of Ishmael, buteven as they felt the Medusoid Mycelium drift into their bodies, each tiny spore feelinglike the footstep of an ant walking down their throats, they could not believe that their ownstory could contain such despair once more, or that such a terrible thing had happened.“What happened?” Friday cried. “I heard glass breaking!”“Never mind the breaking glass,” Erewhon said. “I feel something in my throat,like a tiny seed!”“Never mind your seedy throat,” Finn said. “I see Ishmael standing up on his owntwo feet!”Count Olaf cackled from the white sand where he lay. With one dramatic gesturehe yanked the harpoon out of the mess of broken helmet and tattered dress at hisstomach, and threw it at Ishmael’s clay feet. “The sound you heard was the shatteringof a diving helmet,” he sneered. “The seeds you feel in your throats are the spores ofthe Medusoid Mycelium, and the man standing on his own two feet is the one whohas slaughtered you all!”“The Medusoid Mycelium?” Ishmael repeated in astonishment, as the islandersgasped again. “On these shores? It can’t be! I’ve spent my life trying to keep theisland forever safe from that terrible fungus!”“Nothing’s safe forever, thank goodness,” Count Olaf said, “and you of all peopleshould know that eventually everything washes up on these shores. The Baudelairefamily has finally returned to this island after you threw them off years ago, and theybrought the Medusoid Mycelium with them.”Ishmael’s eyes widened, and he jumped off the edge of the sleigh to stand andconfront the Baudelaire orphans. As his feet landed on the ground, the clay crackedand fell away, and the children could see that the facilitator had a tattoo of an eye onhis left ankle, just as Count Olaf had said. “You brought the Medusoid Mycelium?”he asked. “You had a deadly fungus with you all this time, and you kept it a secretfrom us?”“You’re a fine one to talk about keeping secrets!” Alonso said. “Look at yourhealthy feet, Ishmael! Your dishonesty is the root of the trouble!”“It’s the mutineers who are the root of the trouble!” cried Ariel. “If they hadn’t letCount Olaf out of the cage, this never would have happened!”“It depends on how you look at it,” Professor Fletcher said. “In my opinion, all ofus are the root of the trouble. If we hadn’t put Count Olaf in the cage, he never wouldhave threatened us!”“We’re the root of the trouble because we failed to find the diving helmet,”Ferdinand said. “If we’d retrieved it while storm scavenging, the sheep would havedragged it to the arboretum and we would have been safe!”“Omeros is the root of the trouble,” Dr. Kurtz said, pointing at the young boy.“He’s the one who gave Ishmael the harpoon gun instead of dumping it in thearboretum!”“It’s Count Olaf who’s the root of the trouble!” cried Larsen. “He’s the one whobrought the fungus into the tent!”“I’m not the root of the trouble,” Count Olaf snarled, and then paused to coughloudly before continuing. “I’m the king of the island!”“It doesn’t matter whether you’re king or not,” Violet said. “You’ve breathed inthe fungus like everyone else.”“Violet’s right,” Klaus said. “We don’t have time to stand here arguing.” Evenwithout his commonplace book, Klaus could recite a poem about the fungus that wasfirst recited to him by Fiona shortly before she had broken his heart. “A single sporehas such grim power / That you may die within the hour,” he said. “If we don’t quitour fighting and work together, we’ll all end up dead.”The tent was filled with ululation, a word which here means “the sound ofpanicking islanders.”“Dead?” Madame Nordoff shrieked. “Nobody said the fungus was deadly! Ithought we were merely being threatened with forbidden food!”“I didn’t stay on this island to die!” cried Ms. Marlow. “I could have died athome!”“Nobody is going to die,” Ishmael announced to the crowd.“It depends on how you look at it,” Rabbi Bligh said. “Eventually we’re all goingto die.”“Not if you follow my suggestions,” Ishmael insisted. “Now first, I suggest thateveryone take a nice, long drink from their seashells. The cordial will chase thefungus from your throats.”“No, it won’t!” Violet cried. “Fermented coconut milk has no effect on theMedusoid Mycelium!”“That may be so,” Ishmael said, “but at least we’ll all feel a bit calmer.”“You mean drowsy and inactive,” Klaus corrected. “The cordial is an opiate.”“There’s nothing wrong with cordiality,” Ishmael said. “I suggest we all spend afew minutes discussing our situation in a cordial manner. We can decide what theroot of the problem is, and come up with a solution at our leisure.”“That does sound reasonable,” Calypso admitted.“Trahison des clercs!” Sunny cried, which meant “You’re forgetting about thequick-acting poison in the fungus!”“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “We need to find a solution now, not sit aroundtalking about it over beverages!”“The solution is in the arboretum,” Violet said, “and in the secret space under theroots of the apple tree.”“Secret space?” Sherman said. “What secret space?”“There’s a library down there,” Klaus said, as the crowd murmured in surprise,“cataloging all of the objects that have washed ashore and all the stories those objectstell.”“And kitchen,” Sunny added. “Maybe horseradish.”“Horseradish is the one way to dilute the poison,” Violet explained, and recited therest of the poem the children had heard aboard the Queequeg. “Is dilution simple?But of course I / Just one small dose of root of horse.” She looked around the tent atthe frightened faces of the islanders. “The kitchen beneath the apple tree might havehorseradish,” she said. “We can save ourselves if we hurry.”“They’re lying,” Ishmael said. “There’s nothing in the arboretum but junk, andthere’s nothing underneath the tree but dirt. The Baudelaires are trying to trick you.”“We’re not trying to trick anyone,” Klaus said. “We’re trying to save everyone.”“The Baudelaires knew the Medusoid Mycelium was here,” Ishmael pointed out,“and they never told us. You can’t trust them, but you can trust me, and I suggest weall sit and sip our cordials.”“Razoo,” Sunny said, which meant “You’re the one not to be trusted,” but ratherthan translate, her siblings stepped closer to Ishmael so they could speak to him inrelative privacy.“Why are you doing this?” Violet asked. “If you just sit here and drink cordial,you’ll be doomed.”“We’ve all breathed in the poison,” Klaus said. “We’re all in the same boat.”Ishmael raised his eyebrows, and gave the children a grim smile. “We’ll see aboutthat,” he said. “Now get out of my tent.”“Hightail it,” Sunny said, which meant “We’d better hurry,” and her siblingsnodded in agreement. The Baudelaire orphans quickly left the tent, looking back toget one more glimpse of the worried islanders, the scowling facilitator, and CountOlaf, who still lay on the sand clutching his belly, as if the harpoon had not justdestroyed the diving helmet, but wounded him, too.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not travel back to the far side of the island by sheepdragged sleigh, but even as they hurried over the brae they felt as if they were aboardthe Little Engine That Couldn’t, not only because of the desperate nature of theirerrand, but because of the poison they felt working its wicked way through theBaudelaire systems. Violet and Klaus learned what their sister had gone through deepbeneath the ocean’s surface, when Sunny had nearly perished from the fungus’sdeadly poison, and Sunny received a refresher course, a phrase which here means“another opportunity to feel the stalks and caps of the Medusoid Mycelium begin tosprout in her little throat.” The children had to stop several times to cough, as thegrowing fungus was making it difficult to breathe, and by the time they stoodunderneath the branches of the apple tree, the Baudelaire orphans were wheezingheavily in the afternoon sun.“We don’t have much time,” Violet said, between breaths.“We’ll go straight to the kitchen,” Klaus said, walking through the gap in the tree’sroots as the Incredibly Deadly Viper had shown them.“Hope horseradish,” Sunny said, following her brother, but when the Baudelairesreached the kitchen they were in for a disappointment. Violet flicked the switch thatlit up the kitchen, and the three children hurried to the spice rack, reading the labelson the jars and bottles one by one, but as they searched their hopes began to fade. Thechildren found many of their favorite spices, including sage, oregano, and paprika,which was available in a number of varieties organized according to their level ofsmokiness. They found some of their least favorite spices, including dried parsley,which scarcely tastes like anything, and garlic salt, which forces the taste ofeverything else to flee. They found spices they associated with certain dishes, such asturmeric, which their father used to use while making curried peanut soup, andnutmeg, which their mother used to mix into gingerbread, and they found spices theydid not associate with anything, such as marjoram, which everyone owns but scarcelyanyone uses, and powdered lemon peel, which should only be used in emergencies,such as when fresh lemons have become extinct. They found spices used practicallyeverywhere, such as salt and pepper, and spices used in certain regions, such aschipotle peppers and vindaloo rub, but none of the labels read horseradish, and whenthey opened the jars and bottles, none of the powders, leaves, and seeds insidesmelled like the horseradish factory that once stood on Lousy Lane.“It doesn’t have to be horseradish,” Violet said quickly, putting down a jar oftarragon in frustration. “Wasabi was an adequate substitute when Sunny wasinfected.”“Or Eutrema,” Sunny wheezed.“There’s no wasabi here, either,” Klaus said, sniffing a jar of mace and frowning.“Maybe it’s hidden somewhere.”“Who would hide horseradish?” Violet asked, after a long cough.“Our parents,” Sunny said.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “If they knew about Anwhistle Aquatics, they mighthave known of the dangers of the Medusoid Mycelium. Any horseradish that washedup on the island would have been very valuable indeed.”“We don’t have time to search the entire arboretum to find horseradish,” Violetsaid. She reached into her pocket, her fingers brushing against the ring Ishmael hadgiven her, and found the ribbon the facilitator had been using as a bookmark, whichshe used to tie up her hair so she might think better. “That would be harder thantrying to find the sugar bowl in the entire Hotel Denouement.”At the mention of the sugar bowl, Klaus gave his glasses a quick polish and beganto page through his commonplace book, while Sunny picked up her whisk and bit itthoughtfully. “Maybe it’s hidden in one of the other spice jars,” the middleBaudelaire said.“We smelled them all,” Violet said, between wheezes. “None of them smelled likehorseradish.”“Maybe the scent was disguised by another spice,” Klaus said. “Something thatwas even more bitter than horseradish would cover the smell. Sunny, what are some of thebitterest spices?”“Cloves,” said Sunny, and wheezed. “Cardamom, arrowroot, wormwood.”“Wormwood,” Klaus said thoughtfully, and flipped the pages of his commonplacebook. “Kit mentioned wormwood once,” he said, thinking of poor Kit alone on thecoastal shelf. “She said tea should be as bitter as wormwood and as sharp as a twoedged sword. We were told the same thing when we were served tea right before ourtrial.”“No wormwood here,” Sunny said.“Ishmael also said something about bitter tea,” Violet said. “Remember? Thatstudent of his was afraid of being poisoned.”“Just like we are,” Klaus said, feeling the mushrooms growing inside him. “I wishwe’d heard the end of that story.”“I wish we’d heard every story,” Violet said, her voice sounding hoarse and roughfrom the poison. “I wish our parents had told us everything, instead of sheltering usfrom the treachery of the world.”“Maybe they did,” Klaus said, his voice as rough as his sister’s, and the middleBaudelaire walked to the reading chairs in the middle of the room and picked up ASeries of Unfortunate Events. “They wrote all of their secrets here. If they hid thehorseradish, we’ll find it in this book.”“We don’t have time to read that entire book,” Violet said, “any more than we havetime to search the entire arboretum.”“If we fail,” Sunny said, her voice heavy with fungus, “at least we die readingtogether.”The Baudelaire orphans nodded grimly, and embraced one another. Like mostpeople, the children had occasionally been in a curious and somewhat morbid mood,and had spent a few moments wondering about the circumstances of their owndeaths, although since that unhappy day on Briny Beach when Mr. Poe had firstinformed them about the terrible fire, the children had spent so much time trying toavoid their own deaths that they preferred not to think about it in their time off. Mostpeople do not choose their final circumstances, of course, and if the Baudelaires hadbeen given the choice they would have liked to live to a very old age, which for all Iknow they may be doing. But if the three children had to perish while they were stillthree children, then perishing in one another’s company while reading words writtenlong ago by their mother and father was much better than many other things theycould imagine, and so the three Baudelaires sat together in one of the reading chairs,preferring to be close to one another rather than having more room to sit, andtogether they opened the enormous book and turned back the pages until they reachedthe moment in history when their parents arrived on the island and began takingnotes. The entries in the book alternated between the handwriting of the Baudelairefather and the handwriting of the Baudelaire mother, and the children could imaginetheir parents sitting in these same chairs, reading out loud what they had written andsuggesting things to add to the register of crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankindthat comprised A Series of Unfortunate Events. The children, of course, would haveliked to savor each word their parents had written—the word “savor,” you probablyknow, here means “read slowly, as each sentence in their parents’ handwriting waslike a gift from beyond the grave”— but as the poison of the Medusoid Myceliumadvanced further and further, the siblings had to skim, scanning each page for thewords “horseradish” or “wasabi.” As you know if you’ve ever skimmed a book, youend up getting a strange view of the story, with just glimpses here and there of whatis going on, and some authors insert confusing sentences in the middle of a book justto confuse anyone who might be skimming. Three very short men were carrying alarge, flat piece of wood, painted to look like a living room. As the Baudelaireorphans searched for the secret they hoped they would find, they caught glimpses ofother secrets their parents had kept, and as Violet, Klaus, and Sunny spotted thenames of people the Baudelaire parents had known, things they had whispered tothese people, the codes hidden in the whispers, and many other intriguing details, thechildren hoped they would have the opportunity to reread A Series of UnfortunateEvents on a less frantic occasion. On that afternoon, however, they read faster andfaster, looking desperately for the one secret that might save them as the hour beganto pass and the Medusoid Mycelium grew faster and faster inside them, as if thedeadly fungus also did not have time to savor its treacherous path. As they read moreand more, it grew harder and harder for the Baudelaires to breathe, and when Klausfinally spotted one of the words he had been looking for, he thought for a moment itwas just a vision brought on by all the stalks and caps growing inside him.A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEnd“Horseradish!” he said, his voice rough and wheezy. “Look: ‘Ishmael’sfearmongering has stopped work on the passageway, even though we have a plethoraof horseradish in case of any emergency.’”Violet started to speak, but then choked on the fungus and coughed for a longwhile. “What does ‘fearmongering’ mean?” she said finally.“‘Plethora’?” Sunny’s voice was little more than a mushroom-choked whisper.“‘Fearmongering’ means ‘making people afraid,’” said Klaus, whose vocabularywas unaffected by the poison, “and ‘plethora’ means ‘more than enough.’” He gave alarge, shuddering wheeze, and continued to read. “‘We’re attempting a botanicalhybrid through the tuberous canopy, which should bring safety to fruition despite itsdangers to our associates in utero. Of course, in case we are banished, Beatrice ishiding a small amount in a vess—’”The middle Baudelaire interrupted himself with a cough that was so violent hedropped the book to the floor. His sisters held him tightly as his body shook againstthe poison and one pale hand pointed at the ceiling. “‘Tuberous canopy,’” hewheezed finally. “Our father means the roots above our heads. A botanical hybrid is aplant made from the combination of two other plants.” He shuddered, and his eyes,behind his glasses, filled with tears. “I don’t know what he’s talking about,” he saidfinally.Violet looked at the roots over their heads, where the periscope disappeared intothe network of the tree. To her horror she found that her vision was becoming blurry,as if the fungus was growing over her eyes. “It sounds like they put the horseradishinto the roots of the plant, in order to make everyone safe,” she said. “That’s what‘bringing safety to fruition’ would be, the way a tree brings its crop to fruition.”“Apples!” cried Sunny in a strangled voice. “Bitter apples!”“Of course!” Klaus said. “The tree is a hybrid, and its apples are bitter becausethey contain horseradish!”“If we eat an apple,” Violet said, “the fungus will be diluted.”“Gentreefive,” Sunny agreed in a croak, and lowered herself off her siblings’ laps,wheezing desperately as she tried to get to the gap in the roots. Klaus tried to followher, but when he stood up the poison made him so dizzy that he had to sit back downand clasp his throbbing head. Violet coughed painfully, and gripped her brother’sarm.“Come on,” she said, in a frantic wheeze.Klaus shook his head. “I’m not sure we can make it,” he said.Sunny reached toward the gap in the roots and then curled to the floor in pain.“Kikbucit?” she asked, her voice weak and faint.“We can’t die here,” Violet said, her voice so feeble her siblings could scarcelyhear her. “Our parents saved our lives in this very room, many years ago, withouteven knowing it.”“Maybe not,” Klaus said. “Maybe this is the end of our story.”“Tumurchap,” Sunny said, but before anyone could ask what she meant, thechildren heard another sound, faint and strange, in the secret space beneath the appletree their parents had hybridized with horseradish long ago. The sound was sibilant, aword which might appear to have something to do with siblings, but actually refers toa sort of whistle or hiss, such as a steam engine might make as it comes to a stop, oran audience might make after sitting through one of Al Funcoot’s plays. TheBaudelaires were so desperate and frightened that for a moment they thought it mightbe the sound of Medusoid Mycelium, celebrating its poisonous triumph over the threechildren, or perhaps just the sound of their hopes evaporating. But the sibilance wasnot the sound of evaporating hope or celebrating fungus, and thank goodness it wasnot the sound of a steam engine or a disgruntled theatrical audience, as theBaudelaires were not strong enough to confront such things. The hissing sound camefrom one of the few inhabitants of the island whose story contained not one but twoshipwrecks, and perhaps because of its own sad history, this inhabitant wassympathetic to the sad history of the Baudelaires, although it is difficult to say howmuch sympathy can be felt by an animal, no matter how friendly. I do not have thecourage to do much research on this matter, and my only herpetological comrade’sstory ended quite some time ago, so what this reptile was thinking as it slid towardthe children is a detail of the Baudelaires’ history that may never be revealed. Buteven with this missing detail, it is quite clear what happened. The snake slitheredthrough the gap in the roots of the tree, and whatever the serpent was thinking, it wasquite clear from the sibilant sound that came hissing through the reptile’s clenchedteeth that the Incredibly Deadly Viper was offering the Baudelaire orphans an apple.CHAPTERThirteenIf is a well-known but curious fact that the first bite of an apple always tastes thebest, which is why the heroine of a book much more suitable to read than this onespends an entire afternoon eating the first bite of a bushel of apples. But even thisanarchic little girl—the word “anarchic” here means “apple-loving”—never tasted abite as wonderful as the Baudelaire orphans’ first bite of the apple from the tree theirparents had hybridized with horseradish. The apple was not as bitter as theBaudelaire orphans would have guessed, and the horseradish gave the juice of theapple a slight, sharp edge, like the air on a winter morning. But of course, the biggestappeal of the apple offered by the Incredibly Deadly Viper was its immediate effecton the deadly fungus growing inside them. From the moment the Baudelaire teeth bitdown on the apple—first Violet’s, and then Klaus’s, and then Sunny’s— the stalksand caps of the Medusoid Mycelium began to shrink, and within moments all tracesof the dreaded mushroom had withered away, and the children could breathe clearlyand easily. Hugging one another in relief, the Baudelaires found themselves laughing,which is a common reaction among people who have narrowly escaped death, andthe snake seemed to be laughing, too, although perhaps it was just appreciating theyoungest Baudelaire scratching behind its tiny, hooded ears.“We should each have another apple,” Violet said, standing up, “to make surewe’ve consumed enough horseradish.”“And we should collect enough apples for all of the islanders,” Klaus said. “Theymust be just as desperate as we were.”“Stockpot,” Sunny said, and walked to the rack of pots on the ceiling, where thesnake helped her take down an enormous metal pot that could hold a great number ofapples and in fact had been used to make an enormous vat of applesauce a number ofyears previously.“You two start picking apples,” Violet said, walking to the periscope. “I want tocheck on Kit Snicket. The flooding of the coastal shelf must have begun by now, andshe must be terrified.”“I hope she avoided the Medusoid Mycelium,” Klaus said. “I hate to think of whatthat would do to her child.”“Phearst,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “We should rescue herpromptly.”“The islanders are in worse shape than Kit,” Klaus said. “We should go toIshmael’s tent first, and then go rescue Kit.”Violet peered through the periscope and frowned. “We shouldn’t go to Ishmael’stent,” she said. “We need to fill that stockpot with apples and get to the coastal shelfas quickly as we can.”“What do you mean?” Klaus said.“They’re leaving,” Violet said, and I’m sorry to say it was true. Through theperiscope, the eldest Baudelaire could see the shape of the outrigger and the figuresof its poisoned passengers, who were pushing it along the coastal shelf toward thelibrary raft where Kit Snicket still lay. The three children each peered through theperiscope, and then looked at one another. They knew they should be hurrying, butfor a moment none of the Baudelaires could move, as if they were unwilling to travelany farther in their sad history, or see one more part of their story come to an end.If you have read this far in the chronicle of the Baudelaire orphans—and Icertainly hope you have not—then you know we have reached the thirteenth chapterof the thirteenth volume in this sad history, and so you know the end is near, eventhough this chapter is so lengthy that you might never reach the end of it. But perhapsyou do not yet know what the end really means. “The end” is a phrase which refers tothe completion of a story, or the final moment of some accomplishment, such as asecret errand, or a great deal of research, and indeed this thirteenth volume marks thecompletion of my investigation into the Baudelaire case, which required muchresearch, a great many secret errands, and the accomplishments of a number of mycomrades, from a trolley driver to a botanical hybridization expert, with many, manytypewriter repair people in between. But it cannot be said that The End contains theend of the Baudelaires’ story, any more than The Bad Beginning contained itsbeginning. The children’s story began long before that terrible day on Briny Beach,but there would have to be another volume to chronicle when the Baudelaires wereborn, and when their parents married, and who was playing the violin in the candlelitrestaurant when the Baudelaire parents first laid eyes on one another, and what washidden inside that violin, and the childhood of the man who orphaned the girl whoput it there, and even then it could not be said that the Baudelaires’ story had notbegun, because you would still need to know about a certain tea party held in apenthouse suite, and the baker who made the scones served at the tea party, and thebaker’s assistant who smuggled the secret ingredient into the scone batter through avery narrow drainpipe, and how a crafty volunteer created the illusion of a fire in thekitchen simply by wearing a certain dress and jumping around, and even then thebeginning of the story would be as far away as the shipwreck that left the Baudelaireparents as castaways on the coastal shelf is far away from the outrigger on which theislanders would depart. One could say, in fact, that no story really has a beginning,and that no story really has an end, as all of the world’s stories are as jumbled as theitems in the arboretum, with their details and secrets all heaped together so that thewhole story, from beginning to end, depends on how you look at it. We might evensay that the world is always in medias res— a Latin phrase which means “in themidst of things” or “in the middle of a narrative”—and that it is impossible to solveany mystery, or find the root of any trouble, and so The End is really the middle ofthe story, as many people in this history will live long past the close of ChapterThirteen, or even the beginning of the story, as a new child arrives in the world at thechapter’s close. But one cannot sit in the midst of things forever. Eventually one mustface that the end is near, and the end of The End is quite near indeed, so if I were youI would not read the end of The End, as it contains the end of a notorious villain butalso the end of a brave and noble sibling, and the end of the colonists’ stay on theisland, as they sail off the end of the coastal shelf. The end of The End contains allthese ends, and that does not depend on how you look at it, so it might be best for youto stop looking at The End before the end of The End arrives, and to stop reading TheEnd before you read the end, as the stories that end in The End that began in The BadBeginning are beginning to end now.The Baudelaires hurriedly filled their stock-pot with apples and ran to the coastalshelf, hurrying over the brae as quickly as they could. It was past lunchtime, and thewaters of the sea were already flooding the shelf, so the water was much deeper thanit had been since the children’s arrival. Violet and Klaus had to hold the stockpot highin the air, and Sunny and the Incredibly Deadly Viper climbed up on the elderBaudelaires’shoulders to ride along with the bitter apples. The children could see KitSnicket on the horizon, still lying on the library raft as the waters rose to soak thefirst few layers of books, and alongside the strange cube was the outrigger. As theydrew closer, they saw that the islanders had stopped pushing the boat and wereclimbing aboard, pausing from time to time to cough, while at the head of theoutrigger was the figure of Ishmael, seated in his clay chair, gazing at his poisonedcolonists and watching the children approach.“Stop!” Violet cried, when they were close enough to be heard. “We’ve discovereda way to dilute the poison!”“Baudelaires!” came the faint cry of Kit high atop the library raft. “Thankgoodness you’re here! I think I’m going into labor!”As I’m sure you know, “labor” is the term for the process by which a woman givesbirth, and it is a Herculean task, a phrase which here means “something you wouldrather not do on a library raft floating on a flooding coastal shelf.” Sunny could see,from her stockpot perch, Kit holding her belly and giving the youngest Baudelaire apainful grimace.“We’ll help you,” Violet promised, “but we need to get these apples to theislanders.”“They won’t take them!” Kit said. “I tried to tell them how the poison could bediluted, but they insist on leaving!”“No one’s forcing them,” said Ishmael calmly. “I merely suggested that the islandwas no longer a safe place, and that we should set sail for another one.”“You and the Baudelaires are the ones who got us into this mess,” came thedrowsy voice of Mr. Pitcairn, thick with fungus and coconut cordial, “but Ishmael isgoing to get us out.”“This island used to be a safe place,” said Professor Fletcher, “far from thetreachery of the world. But since you’ve arrived it’s become dangerous andcomplicated.”“That’s not our fault,” Klaus said, walking closer and closer to the outrigger as thewater continued to rise. “You can’t live far from the treachery of the world, becauseeventually the treachery will wash up on your shores.”“Exactly,” said Alonso, who yawned. “You washed up and spoiled the islandforever.”“So we’re leaving it to you,” said Ariel, who coughed violently. “You can havethis dangerous place. We’re going to sail to safety.”“Safe here!” Sunny cried, holding up an apple.“You’ve poisoned us enough,” said Erewhon, and the islanders wheezed inagreement “We don’t want to hear any more of your treacherous ideas.”“But you were ready to mutiny,” Violet said. “You didn’t want to take Ishmael’ssuggestions.”“That was before the Medusoid Mycelium arrived,” Finn said hoarsely. “He’s beenhere the longest, so he knows how to keep us safe. At his suggestion, we all drankquite a bit of cordial while he figured out the root of the trouble.” She paused to catchher breath as the sinister fungus continued to grow. “And the root of the trouble,Baudelaires, is you.”By now the children had reached the outrigger, and they looked up at Ishmael,who raised his eyebrows and stared back at the frantic Baudelaires. “Why are youdoing this?” Klaus asked the facilitator. “You know we’re not the root of theproblem.”“In medias res!” Sunny cried.“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “The Medusoid Mycelium was around before wewere born, and our parents prepared for its arrival by adding horseradish to the rootsof the apple tree.”“If they don’t eat these bitter apples,” Klaus pleaded, “they’ll come to a bitter end.Tell the islanders the whole story, Ishmael, so they can save themselves.”“The whole story?” Ishmael said, and leaned down from his chair so he could talkto the Baudelaires without the others hearing. “If I told the islanders the whole story,I wouldn’t be keeping them safe from the world’s terrible secrets. They almostlearned the whole story this morning, and began to mutiny over breakfast. If theyknew all these island’s secrets there’d be a schism in no time at all.”“Better a schism than a death,” Violet said.Ishmael shook his head, and fingered the wild strands of his woolly beard. “Noone is going to die,” he said. “This outrigger can take us to a beach near Lousy Lane,where we can travel to a horseradish factory.”“You don’t have time for such a long voyage,” Klaus said.“I think we do,” Ishmael said. “Even without a compass, I think I can get us to asafe place.”“You need a moral compass,” Violet said. “The spores of the Medusoid Myceliumcan kill within the hour. The entire colony could be poisoned, and even if you make itto shore, the fungus could spread to anyone you meet. You’re not keeping anyonesafe. You’re endangering the whole world, just to keep a few of your secrets. That’snot parenting! That’s horrid and wrong!”“I guess it depends on how you look at it,” Ishmael said. “Good-bye, Baudelaires.”He sat up straight and called out to the wheezing islanders. “I suggest you startrowing,” he said, and the colonists reached their arms into the water and began topaddle the outrigger away from the children. The Baudelaires hung on to the side ofthe boat, and called to the islander who had first found them on the coastal shelf.“Friday!” Sunny cried. “Take apple!”“Don’t succumb to peer pressure,” Violet begged.Friday turned to face the children, and the siblings could see she was terriblyfrightened. Klaus quickly grabbed an apple from the stock-pot, and the young girlleaned out of the boat to touch his hand.“I’m sorry to leave you behind, Baudelaires,” she said, “but I must go with myfamily. I’ve already lost my father, and I couldn’t stand to lose anyone else.”“But your father—” Klaus started to say, but Mrs. Caliban gave him a terrible lookand pulled her daughter away from the edge of the outrigger.“Don’t rock the boat,” she said. “Come here and drink your cordial.”“Your mother is right, Friday,” Ishmael said firmly. “You should respect yourparent’s wishes. It’s more than the Baudelaires ever did.”“We are respecting our parents’ wishes,” Violet said, hoisting the apples as high asshe could. “They didn’t want to shelter us from the world’s treacheries. They wantedus to survive them.”Ishmael put his hand on the stockpot of apples. “What do your parents know,” heasked, “about surviving?” and with one firm, cruel gesture the old orphan pushedagainst the stock-pot, and the outrigger moved out of the children’s grasp. Violet andKlaus tried to take another step closer to the islanders, but the water had risen too far,and the Baudelaire feet slipped off the surface of the coastal shelf, and the siblingsfound themselves swimming. The stockpot tipped, and Sunny gave a small shriek andclimbed down to Violet’s shoulders as several apples from the pot dropped into thewater with a splash. At the sound of the splash, the Baudelaires remembered theapple core that Ishmael had dropped, and realized why the facilitator was so calm inthe face of the deadly fungus, and why his voice was the only one of the islanders’that wasn’t clogged with stalks and caps.“We have to go after them,” Violet said. “We may be their only chance!”“We can’t go after them,” Klaus said, still holding the apple. “We have to helpKit.”“Split up,” Sunny said, staring after the departing outrigger.Klaus shook his head. “All of us need to stay if we’re going to help Kit give birth.”He gazed at the islanders and listened to the wheezing and coughing coming from theboat fashioned from wild grasses and the limbs of trees. “They made their decision,”he said finally.“Kontiki,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of, “There’s no waythey’ll survive the journey,” but the youngest Baudelaire was wrong. There was away. There was a way to bring the islanders a single apple that they could share, eachtaking a bite of the precious bitter fruit that might tide them over—the phrase “tidethem over,” as you probably know, means “help deal with a difficult situation”—until they reached someplace or someone who could help them, just as the threeBaudelaires shared an apple in the secret space where their parents had enabled themto survive one of the most deadly unfortunate events ever to wash up on the island’sshores. Whoever brought the apple to the islanders, of course, would need to swimvery stealthily to the outrigger, and it would help if they were quite small and slender,so they might escape the watchful eye of the outrigger’s facilitator. The Baudelaireswould not notice the disappearance of the Incredibly Deadly Viper for quite sometime, as they would be focused on helping Kit, and so they could never say for surewhat happened to the snake, and my research into the reptile’s story is incomplete, soI do not know what other chapters occurred in its history, as Ink, as some prefer tocall the snake, slithered from one place to the next, sometimes taking shelter from thetreachery of the world and sometimes committing treacherous acts of its own—ahistory not unlike that of the Baudelaire orphans, which some have called little morethan the register of crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind. Unless you haveinvestigated the islanders’ case yourself, there is no way of knowing what happenedto them as they sailed away from the colony that had been their home. But there wasa way they could have survived their journey, a way that may seem fantastic, but isno less fantastic than three children helping a woman give birth. The Baudelaireshurried to the library raft, and lifted Sunny and the stockpot to the top of the raftwhere Kit lay, so the youngest Baudelaire could hold the wheezing woman’s glovedhand and the bitter apples could dilute the poison inside her as Violet and Klauspushed the raft back toward shore. “Have an apple,” Sunny offered, but Kit shook herhead.“I can’t,” she said.“But you’ve been poisoned,” Violet said. “You must have caught a spore or twofrom the islanders as they floated by.”“The apples will harm the baby,” Kit said. “There’s something in the hybrid that’sbad for people who haven’t been born yet. That’s why your mother never tasted oneof her own bitter apples. She was pregnant with you, Violet.” One of Kit’s glovedhands drifted down over the top of the raft and patted the hair of the eldestBaudelaire. “I hope I’m half as good a mother as yours was, Violet,” she said.“You will be,” Klaus said.“I don’t know,” Kit said. “I was supposed to help you children on that day whenyou finally reached Briny Beach. I wanted nothing more than to take you away in mytaxi to someplace safe. Instead, I threw you into a world of treachery at the HotelDenouement. And I wanted nothing more than to reunite you with your friends theQuagmires. Instead, I left them behind.” She uttered a wheezy sigh, and fell silent.Violet continued to guide the raft toward the island, and noticed for the first timethat her hands were pushing against the spine of a book whose title she recognizedfrom the library Aunt Josephine kept underneath her bed—Ivan Lachrymose—LakeExplorer—while her brother was pushing against Mushroom Minutiae, a book thathad been part of Fiona’s mycological library. “What happened?” she asked, trying toimagine what strange events would have brought these books to these shores.“I failed you,” Kit said sadly, and coughed. “Quigley managed to reach the selfsustaining hot air mobile home, just as I hoped he would, and helped his siblings andHector catch the treacherous eagles in an enormous net, while I met CaptainWiddershins and his stepchildren.”“Fernald and Fiona?” Klaus said, referring to the hook-handed man who had onceworked for Count Olaf, and the young woman who had broken his heart. “But theybetrayed him—and us.”“The captain had forgiven the failures of those he had loved,” Kit said, “as I hopeyou will forgive mine, Baudelaires. We made a desperate attempt to repair theQueequeg and reach the Quagmires as their aerial battle continued, and arrived just intime to see the balloons of the self-sustaining hot air mobile home pop under thecruel beaks of the escaping eagles. They tumbled down to the surface of the sea, andcrashed into the Queequeg. In moments we were all castaways, treading water in themidst of all the items that survived the wreck.” She was silent for a moment. “Fionawas so desperate to reach you, Klaus,” she said. “She wanted you to forgive her aswell.”“Did she—” Klaus could not bear to finish his question. “I mean, what happenednext?”“I don’t know,” Kit admitted. “From the depths of the sea a mysterious figureapproached— almost like a question mark, rising out of the water.”“We saw that on a radar screen,” Violet remembered. “Captain Widdershinsrefused to tell us what it was.”“My brother used to call it ‘The Great Unknown,’” Kit said, clasping her belly asthe baby kicked violently. “I was terrified, Baudelaires. Quickly I fashioned aVaporetto of Favorite Detritus, as I’d been trained to do.”“‘Vaporetto’?” Sunny asked.“It’s an Italian term for ‘boat,’” Kit said. “It was one of many Italian phrasesMonty taught me. A Vaporetto of Favorite Detritus is a way of saving yourself andyour favorite things at the same time. I gathered all the books in reach that I enjoyed,tossing the boring ones into the sea, but everyone else wanted to take their chanceswith the great unknown. I begged the others to climb aboard as the question markapproached, but only Ink managed to reach me. The others …” Her voice trailed off,and for a moment Kit did nothing but wheeze. “In an instant they were gone—eitherswallowed up or rescued by that mysterious thing.”“You don’t know what happened to them?” Klaus asked.Kit shook her head. “All I heard,” she said, “was one of the Quagmires callingViolet’s name.”Sunny looked into the face of the distraught woman. “Quigley,” the youngestBaudelaire could not help asking “or Duncan?”“I don’t know,” Kit said again. “I’m sorry, Baudelaires. I failed you. Yousucceeded in your noble errands at the Hotel Denouement, and saved Dewey and theothers, but I don’t know if we’ll ever see the Quagmires and their companions again.I hope you will forgive my failures, and when I see Dewey again I hope he willforgive me, too.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another sadly, realizing it was time at last totell Kit Snicket the whole story, as she had told them. “We’ll forgive your failures,”Violet said, “if you’ll forgive ours.”“We failed you, too,” Klaus said. “We had to burn down the Hotel Denouement,and we don’t know if anyone escaped to safety.”Sunny gripped Kit’s hand in hers. “And Dewey is dead,” she said, and everyoneburst into tears. There is a kind of crying I hope you have not experienced, and it isnot just crying about something terrible that has happened, but a crying for all of theterrible things that have happened, not just to you but to everyone you know and toeveryone you don’t know and even the people you don’t want to know, a crying thatcannot be diluted by a brave deed or a kind word, but only by someone holding youas your shoulders shake and your tears run down your face. Sunny held Kit, andViolet held Klaus, and for a minute the four castaways did nothing but weep, lettingtheir tears run down their faces and into the sea, which some have said is nothing buta library of all the tears in history. Kit and the children let their sadness join thesadness of the world, and cried for all of the people who were lost to them. Theycried for Dewey Denouement, and for the Quagmire triplets, and for all of theircompanions and guardians, friends and associates, and for all of the failures theycould forgive and all of the treacheries they could endure. They cried for the world,and most of all, of course, the Baudelaire orphans cried for their parents, who theyknew, finally, they would never see again. Even though Kit Snicket had not broughtnews of their parents, her story of the Great Unknown made them see at last that thepeople who had written all those chapters in A Series of Unfortunate Events weregone forever into the great unknown, and that Violet, Klaus, and Sunny would beorphans forever, too.“Stop,” Kit said finally, through her fading tears. “Stop pushing the raft. I cannotgo on.”“We have to go on,” Violet said.“We’re almost at the beach,” Klaus said.“The shelf is flooding,” Sunny said.“Let it flood,” Kit said. “I can’t do it, Baudelaires. I’ve lost too many people—myparents, my true love, and my brothers.”At the mention of Kit’s brothers, Violet thought to reach into her pocket, and sheretrieved the ornate ring, emblazoned with the initial R. “Sometimes the thingsyou’ve lost can be found again in unexpected places,” she said, and held the ring upfor Kit to see. The distraught woman removed her gloves, and held the ring in herbare and trembling hand.“This isn’t mine,” she said. “It belonged to your mother.”“Before it belonged to our mother,” Klaus said, “it belonged to you.”“Its history began before we were born,” Kit said, “and it should continue after wedie. Give it to my child, Baudelaires. Let my child be part of my history, even if thebaby is an orphan, and all alone in the world.”“The baby will not be alone,” Violet said fiercely. “If you die, Kit, we will raisethis child as our own.”“I could not ask for better,” Kit said quietly. “Name the baby after one of yourparents, Baudelaires. The custom of my family is to name a baby for someone whohas died.”“Ours too,” Sunny said, remembering something her father had told her when shehad inquired about her own name.“Our families have always been close,” Kit said, “even if we had to stay apartfrom one another. Now, finally, we are all together, as if we are one family.”“Then let us help you,” Sunny said, and with a weepy, wheezy nod, Kit Snicket letthe Baudelaires push her Vaporetto of Favorite Detritus off the coastal shelf and ontothe shores of the island, where eventually everything arrives, just as the outriggerdisappeared on the horizon. The children gazed at the islanders for the last time—atleast as far as I know—and then at the cube of books, and tried to imagine how theinjured, pregnant, and distraught woman could get to a safe place to birth a child.“Can you lower yourself down?” Violet asked.Kit shook her head. “It hurts,” she said, her voice thick with the poisonous fungus.“We can carry her,” Klaus said, but Kit shook her head again.“I’m too heavy,” she said weakly. “I could fall from your grasp and hurt the baby.”“We can invent a way to get you to the shore,” Violet said.“Yes,” Klaus said. “We’ll just run to the arboretum to find what we need.”“No time,” Sunny said, and Kit nodded in agreement.“The baby’s coming quickly,” she said. “Find someone to help you.”“We’re alone,” Violet said, but then she and her siblings gazed out at the beachwhere the raft had arrived, and the Baudelaires saw, crawling out of Ishmael’s tent,the one person for whom they had not shed a tear. Sunny slid down to the sand,bringing the stockpot with her, and the three children hurried up the slope to thestruggling figure of Count Olaf.“Hello, orphans,” he said, his voice even wheezier and rougher from the spreadingpoison of the Medusoid Mycelium. Esme’s dress had fallen away from his skinnybody, and he was crawling on the sand in his regular clothes, with one hand holding aseashell of cordial and the other clutching at his chest. “Are you here to bow beforethe king of Olaf-Land?”“We don’t have time for your nonsense,” Violet said. “We need your help.”Count Olaf’s eyebrow raised, and he gave the children an astonished glare. “Youneed my help?” he asked. “What happened to all those island fools?”“They abandoned us,” Klaus said.Olaf wheezed horridly, and it took the siblings a moment to realize he waslaughing. “How do you like them apples?” he sputtered, using an expression whichmeans “I find this situation quite remarkable.”“We’ll give you apples,” Sunny said, gesturing to the stockpot, “if you help.”“I don’t want fruit,” Olaf snarled, and tried to sit up, his hand still clutching hischest. “I want the fortune your parents left behind.”“The fortune isn’t here,” Violet said. “None of us may ever see a penny of thatmoney.”“Even if it were here,” Klaus said, “you might not live to enjoy it.”“Mcguffin,” Sunny said, which meant “Your scheming means nothing in thisplace.”Count Olaf raised the seashell to his lips, and the Baudelaires could see that he wastrembling. “Then maybe I’ll just stay here,” he said hoarsely. “I’ve lost too much togo on—my parents, my true love, my henchfolk, an enormous amount of money Ididn’t earn, even the boat with my name on it.”The three children looked at one another, remembering their time on that boat andrecalling that they had considered throwing him overboard. If Olaf had drowned inthe sea, the Medusoid Mycelium might never have threatened the island, although thedeadly fungus eventually would have washed up on its shores, and if the villain weredead then there would be no one on the beach who might help Kit Snicket and herchild.Violet knelt on the sand, and grabbed the villain’s shoulders with both hands. “Wehave to go on,” she said. “Do one good thing in your life, Olaf.”“I’ve done lots of good things in my life,” he snarled. “I once took in threeorphans, and I’ve been considered for several prestigious theatrical awards.”Klaus knelt down beside his sister, and stared into the villain’s shiny eyes. “You’rethe one who made us orphans in the first place,” he said, uttering out loud for the firsttime a secret all three Baudelaires had kept in their hearts for almost as long as theycould remember. Olaf closed his eyes for a moment, grimacing in pain, and thenstared slowly at each of the three children in turn.“Is that what you think?” he said finally.“We know it,” Sunny said.“You don’t know anything,” Count Olaf said. “You three children are the same aswhen I first laid eyes on you. You think you can triumph in this world with nothingmore than a keen mind, a pile of books, and the occasional gourmet meal.” Hepoured one last gulp of cordial into his poisoned mouth before throwing the seashellinto the sand. “You’re just like your parents,” he said, and from the shore the childrenheard Kit Snicket moan.“You have to help Kit,” Violet said. “The baby is arriving.”“Kit?” Count Olaf asked, and in one swift gesture he grabbed an apple from thestockpot and took a savage bite. He chewed, wincing in pain, and the Baudelaireslistened as his wheezing settled and the poisonous fungus was diluted by theirparents’ invention. He took another bite, and another, and then, with a horrible groan,the villain rose to his feet, and the children saw that his chest was soaked with blood.“You’re hurt,” Klaus said.“I’ve been hurt before,” Count Olaf said, and he staggered down the slope andwaded into the waters of the flooded coastal shelf. In one smooth gesture he lifted Kitfrom the raft and carried her onto the shores of the island. The distraught woman’seyes were closed, and as the Baudelaires hurried down to her they were not sure shewas alive until Olaf laid her carefully down on the white sands of the beach, and thechildren saw her chest heaving with breath. The villain stared at Kit for one longmoment, and then he leaned down and did a strange thing. As the Baudelaire orphanslooked on, Count Olaf gave Kit Snicket a gentle kiss on her trembling mouth.“Yuck,” said Sunny, as Kit’s eyes fluttered open.“I told you,” Count Olaf said weakly. “I told you I’d do that one last time.”“You’re a wicked man,” Kit said. “Do you think one kind act will make me forgiveyou for your failings?”The villain stumbled a few steps away, and then sat down on the sand and uttered adeep sigh. “I haven’t apologized,” he said, looking first at the pregnant woman andthen at the Baudelaires. Kit reached out and touched the man’s ankle, right on thetattoo of an eye that had haunted the children since they had first seen it. Violet,Klaus, and Sunny looked at the tattoo, remembering all of the times it had beendisguised and all the times it had been revealed, and they thought of all the otherplaces they had seen it, for if you looked carefully, the drawing of an eye also spelledout the initials V.F.D., and as the children had investigated the Volunteer FireDepartment, first trying to decode the organization’s sinister mysteries and thentrying to participate in its noble errands, it seemed that these eyes were watchingthem, though whether the eyes were noble or treacherous, good or evil, seemed evennow to be a mystery. The whole story of these eyes, it seemed, might always behidden from the children, kept in darkness along with all the other eyes watching allthe other orphans every day and every night.“‘The night has a thousand eyes,’” Kit said hoarsely, and lifted her head to face thevillain. The Baudelaires could tell by her voice that she was reciting the words ofsomeone else. ‘“And the day but one; yet the light of the bright world dies with thedying sun. The mind has a thousand eyes, and the heart but one: yet the light of awhole life dies when love is done.’”Count Olaf gave Kit a faint smile. “You’re not the only one who can recite thewords of our associates,” he said, and then gazed out at the sea. The afternoon wasnearly over, and soon the island would be covered in darkness. ‘“Man hands onmisery to man,’” the villain said. “‘It deepens like a coastal shelf. Get out as early asyou can—’” Here he coughed, a ghastly sound, and his hands clutched his chest.“‘And don’t have any kids yourself,’” he finished, and uttered a short, sharp laugh.Then the villain’s story came to an end. Olaf lay back on the sand, far from thetreachery of the world, and the children stood on the beach and stared into his face.His eyes shone brightly, and his mouth opened as if he wanted to tell themsomething, but the Baudelaire orphans never heard Count Olaf say another word.Kit gave a cry of pain, thick with poisonous fungus, and clutched her heavingbelly, and the Baudelaires hurried to help her. They did not even notice when CountOlaf closed his eyes for the last time, and perhaps this is a good time for you to closeyour eyes, too, not just to avoid reading the end of the Baudelaires’ story, but toimagine the beginning of another. It is likely your own eyes were closed when youwere born, so that you left the safe place of your mother’s womb—or, if you are aseahorse, your father’s yolk sac—and joined the treachery of the world withoutseeing exactly where you were going. You did not yet know the people who werehelping you make your way here, or the people who would shelter you as your lifebegan, when you were even smaller and more delicate and demanding than you arenow. It seems strange that you would do such a thing, and leave yourself in the careof strangers for so long, only gradually opening your eyes to see what all the fuss wasabout, and yet this is the way nearly everyone comes into the world. Perhaps if wesaw what was ahead of us, and glimpsed the crimes, follies, and misfortunes thatwould befall us later on, we would all stay in our mother’s wombs, and then therewould be nobody in the world but a great number of very fat, very irritated women.In any case, this is how all our stories begin, in darkness with our eyes closed, and allour stories end the same way, too, with all of us uttering some last words—or perhapssomeone else’s—before slipping back into darkness as our series of unfortunateevents comes to an end. And in this way, with the journey taken by Kit Snicket’sbaby, we reach the end of A Series of Unfortunate Events as well. For some time, KitSnicket’s labor was very difficult, and it seemed to the children that things weremoving in an aberrant—the word “aberrant” here means “very, very wrong, andcausing much grief”—direction. But finally, into the world came a baby girl, just as,I’m very, very sorry to say, her mother, and my sister, slipped away from the worldafter a long night of suffering—but also a night of joy, as the birth of a baby is alwaysgood news, no matter how much bad news the baby will hear later. The sun rose overthe coastal shelf, which would not flood again for another year, and the Baudelaireorphans held the baby on the shore and watched as her eyes opened for the first time.Kit Snicket’s daughter squinted at the sunrise, and tried to imagine where in theworld she was, and of course as she wondered this she began to cry. The girl, namedafter the Baudelaires’ mother, howled and howled, and as her series of unfortunateevents began, this history of the Baudelaire orphans ended.This is not to say, of course, that the Baudelaire orphans died that day. They werefar too busy. Although they were still children, the Baudelaires were parents now, andthere was quite a lot to do. Violet designed and built the equipment necessary forraising an infant, using the library of detritus stored in the shade of the apple tree.Klaus searched the enormous bookcase for information on child care, and keptcareful track of the baby’s progress. Sunny herded and milked the wild sheep, toprovide nourishment for the baby, and used the whisk Friday had given her to makesoft foods as the baby’s teeth came in. And all three Baudelaires planted seeds fromthe bitter apples all over the island, to chase away any traces of the MedusoidMycelium—even though they remembered it grew best in small, enclosed spaces—sothe deadly fungus had no chance to harm the child and so the island would remain assafe as it was on the day they arrived. These chores took all day, and at night, whilethe baby was learning to sleep, the Baudelaires would sit together in the two largereading chairs and take turns reading out loud from the book their parents had leftbehind, and sometimes they would flip to the back of the book, and add a few lines tothe history themselves. While reading and writing, the siblings found many answersfor which they had been looking, although each answer, of course, only brought forthanother mystery, as there were many details of the Baudelaires’ lives that seemed likea strange, unreadable shape of some great unknown. But this did not concern them asmuch as you might think. One cannot spend forever sitting and solving the mysteriesof one’s history, and no matter how much one reads, the whole story can never betold. But it was enough. Reading their parents’ words was, under the circumstances,the best for which the Baudelaire orphans could hope.As the night grew later they would drop off to sleep, just as their parents did, in thechairs in the secret space beneath the roots of the bitter apple tree, in the arboretumon an island far, far from the treachery of the world. Several hours later, of course,the baby would wake up and fill the space with confused and hungry cries. TheBaudelaires took turns, and while the other two children slept, one Baudelaire wouldcarry the baby, in a sling Violet had designed, out of the arboretum and up to the topof the brae, where they would sit, infant and parent, and have breakfast while staringat the sea. Sometimes they would visit Kit Snicket’s grave, where they would lay afew wildflowers, or the grave of Count Olaf, where they would merely stand silentfor a few moments. In many ways, the lives of the Baudelaire orphans that year is notunlike my own, now that I have concluded my investigation. Like Violet, like Klaus,and like Sunny, I visit certain graves, and often spend my mornings standing on abrae, staring out at the same sea. It is not the whole story, of course, but it is enough.Under the circumstances, it is the best for which you can hope.BRETT HELQUIST was born in Ganado, Arizona, grew up in Orem, Utah, and nowlives in Brooklyn, New York. He is hopeful that with the publication of the last book in ASeries of Unfortunate Events, he’ll be able to step outside more often in the daytime, andsleep better at night.LEMONY SNICKET is the author of all 170 chapters of A Series of UnfortunateEvents. He is almost finished.To My Kind Editor:The end of THIS END can be found at the end of THE END ,With all due respect,Lemony SnicketA Series of Unfortunate EventsBOOK the LastCHAPTER FOURTEENby LEMONY SNICKETÔ Mort, vieux capitaine, il est temps! levons l’ancre!Ce pays nous ennuie, ô Mort! Appareillons !Si le ciel et la mer sont noirs comme de l’encre.Nos coeurs que tu connais sont remplis de rayons!For Beatrice —We are like boats passing in the night —particularly you.CHAPTERFourteenThe last entry in the Baudelaire parents’ handwriting in A Series of UnfortunateEvents reads as follows:As we suspected, we are to be castaways once more. The others believe that the islandshould stay far from the treachery of the world, and so this safe place is too dangerous forus. We will leave by a boat B has built and named after me. I am heartbroken, but I havebeen heartbroken before, and this might be the best for which I can hope. We cannot trulyshelter our children, here or anywhere else, and so it might be best for us and for the babyto immerse ourselves in the world. By the way, if it is a girl we will name her Violet, andif it is a boy we will name him Lemony.The Baudelaire orphans read this entry one evening after a supper of seaweedsalad, crab cakes, and roast lamb, and when Violet finished reading all three childrenlaughed. Even Kit’s baby, sitting on Sunny’s knee, uttered a happy shriek.“Lemony?” Violet repeated. “They would have named me Lemony? Where didthey get that idea?”“From someone who died, presumably,” Klaus said. “Remember the familycustom?”“Lemony Baudelaire,” Sunny tried, and the baby laughed again. She was nearly ayear old, and looked very much like her mother.“They never told us about a Lemony,” Violet said, and ran her hair through herhands. She had been repairing the water filtration system all day and was quite tired.Klaus poured his sisters more coconut milk, which the children preferred to drinkfresh. “They didn’t tell us a lot of things,” he said. “What do you think it means, ‘I’vebeen heartbroken before’?”“You know what ‘heartbroken’ means,” Sunny said, and then nodded as the babymurmured “Abelard.” The youngest Baudelaire was best at deciphering the infant’ssomewhat unusual way of speaking.“I think it means we should leave,” Violet said.“Leave the island?” Klaus said. “And go where?”“Anywhere,” Violet said. “We can’t stay here forever. There’s everything we mightneed, but it’s not right to be so far from the world.”“And its treachery?” Sunny asked.“You’d think we would have had enough treachery for a lifetime,” Klaus said, “butthere’s more to life than safety.”“Our parents left,” Violet said. “Maybe we should honor their wishes.”“Chekrio?” the baby said, and the Baudelaires considered her for a moment. Kit’sdaughter was growing up very quickly, and she eagerly explored the island at everyopportunity. All three siblings had to keep a close eye on her, particularly in thearboretum, which was still heaping with detritus even after a year of cataloging.Many of the items in the enormous library were dangerous for babies, of course, butthe infant had never had a serious injury. The baby had heard about danger, too,mostly from the register of crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind from whichthe Baudelaires read out loud each evening, although they had not told the infant thewhole story. She did not know all of the Baudelaires’ secrets, and indeed there weresome she would never know.A Series of Unfortunate Events 13 - TheEnd“We can’t shelter her forever,” Klaus said. “In any case, treachery will wash up onthese shores.”“I’m surprised it hasn’t already,” Violet said. “Plenty of things have beenshipwrecked here, but we haven’t seen a single castaway.”“If we leave,” Sunny asked, “what will we find?”The Baudelaires fell silent. Because no castaways had arrived in the year, they hadlittle news of the world, aside from a few scraps of newspaper that had survived aterrible storm. Judging from the articles, there were still villains loose in the world,although a few volunteers also appeared to have survived all of the troubles that hadbrought the children to the island. The articles, however, were from The DailyPunctilio, and so the children could not be sure they were accurate. For all they knew,the islanders had spread the Medusoid Mycelium, and the entire world might bepoisoned. This, however, seemed unlikely, as the world, no matter how monstrouslyit may be threatened, has never been known to succumb entirely. The Baudelairesalso thought of all the people they hoped to see again, although, sadly, this alsoseemed unlikely, though not impossible.“We won’t know until we get there,” Violet said.“Well, if we’re leaving, we’d better hurry,” Klaus said. He stood up and walked tothe bench, where the middle Baudelaire had fashioned a calendar he believed to befairly accurate. “The coastal shelf will flood soon.”“We won’t need much,” Sunny said. “We have quite a bit of nonperishable food.”“I’ve cataloged quite a bit of naval equipment,” Violet said.“I have some good maps,” Klaus said, “but we should also make room for some ofour favorite detritus. I have some novels by P. G. Wodehouse I’ve been meaning toget to.”“Blueprints,” Violet said thoughtfully.“My whisk,” Sunny said, looking at the item that Friday had smuggled her longago, which had turned out to be a very handy utensil even after the baby hadoutgrown whisked foods.“Cake!” shrieked the baby, and her guardians laughed.“Do we take this?” Violet asked, holding up the book from which she had read outloud.“I don’t think so,” Klaus said. “Perhaps another castaway will arrive, and continuethe history.”“In any case,” Sunny said, “they’ll have something to read.”“So we’re really leaving,” Violet said, and they really were. After a good night’ssleep, the Baudelaires began to prepare for their voyage, and it was true they didn’tneed much. Sunny was able to pack a great deal of food that would be perfect for thejourney, and even managed to sneak in a few luxuries, such as some roe she hadharvested from local fishes, and a somewhat bitter but still tasty apple pie. Klausrolled several maps into a neat cylinder, and added a number of useful andentertaining items from the vast library. Violet added some blueprints and equipmentto the pile, and then selected a boat from all the shipwrecks that lay in the arboretum.The eldest Baudelaire had been surprised to find that the boat that looked best for thetask was the one on which they had arrived, although by the time she was donerepairing and readying it for the voyage she was not surprised after all. She repairedthe hull of the boat, and fastened new sails to the masts, and finally she looked at thenameplate reading COUNT OLAF, and with a small frown, she tore through the tapeand removed it. As the children had noticed on their voyage to the island, there wasanother nameplate underneath, and when Violet read what it said, and called hersiblings and adopted daughter over to see, yet another question about their lives wasanswered, and yet another mystery had begun.Finally, the day for departure arrived, and as the coastal shelf began to flood theBaudelaires carried the boat—or, as Uncle Monty might have put it, “vaporetto”—down to the beach and began to load all of their supplies. Violet, Klaus, and Sunnygazed at the white sands of the beach, where new apple trees were beginning to grow.The children spent nearly all of their time in the arboretum, and so the side of theisland where the colony had been now felt like the far side of the island, rather thanwhere their parents had lived. “Are we ready to immerse ourselves in the world?”Violet asked.“I just hope we don’t immerse ourselves in the sea,” Klaus said, with a smallsmile.“Me too,” Sunny said, and smiled back at her brother.“Where’s the baby?” Violet said. “I want to make sure these life jackets I’vedesigned will fit properly.”“She wanted to say good-bye to her mother,” Sunny said. “She’ll be along soon.”Sure enough, the tiny figure of Kit’s daughter could be seen crawling over thebrae, toward the children and their boat. The Baudelaires watched her approach,wondering what the next chapter in this infant’s life would be, and indeed that isdifficult to say. There are some who say that the Baudelaires rejoined V.F.D. and areengaged in brave errands to this day, perhaps under different names to avoid beingcaptured. There are others who say that they perished at sea, although rumors ofone’s death crop up so often, and are so often revealed to be untrue. But in any case,as my investigation is over, we have indeed reached the last chapter of theBaudelaires’ story, even if the Baudelaires had not. The three children climbed intothe boat, and waited for the baby to crawl to the water’s edge, where she could pullherself into a standing position by clinging to the back of the boat. Soon the coastalshelf would flood, and the Baudelaire orphans would be on their way, immersingthemselves in the world and leaving this story forever. Even the baby clutching theboat, whose story had just begun, would soon vanish from this chronicle, afteruttering just a few words.“Vi!” she cried, which was her way of greeting Violet. “Kla! Sun!”“We wouldn’t leave without you,” Violet said, smiling down at the baby.“Come aboard,” Klaus said, talking to her as if she were an adult.“You little thing,” Sunny said, using a term of endearment she had made upherself.The baby paused, and looked at the back of the boat, where the nameplate hadbeen affixed. She had no way of knowing this, of course, but the nameplate had beennailed to the back of the boat by a person standing on the very spot she was standing—at least, as far as my research has shown. The infant was standing on a spot insomeone else’s story, during a moment of her own, but she was thinking neither ofthe story far in the past nor of her own, which stretched into the future like the opensea. She was gazing at the nameplate, and her forehead was wrinkled inconcentration. Finally, she uttered a word. The Baudelaire orphans gasped when theyheard it, but they could not say for sure whether she was reading the word out loud ormerely stating her own name, and indeed they never learned this. Perhaps this lastword was the baby’s first secret, joining the secrets the Baudelaires were keepingfrom the baby, and all the other secrets immersed in the world. Perhaps it is better notto know precisely what was meant by this word, as some things are better left in thegreat unknown. There are some words, of course, that are better left unsaid— but not,I believe, the word uttered by my niece, a word which here means that the story isover. Beatrice.LEMONY SNICKET is still at large.BRETT HELQUIST was born in Ganado, Arizona, grew up in Orem, Utah, and nowlives in Brooklyn, New York. Unfortunately, he gets out rarely during the daytime, andsleeps very little at night.A Series of Unfortunate Events 2- TheReptile RoomASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the SecondThe Reptile RoomLemony SnicketFor Beatrice—My love for you shall live forever.You, however, did not.C H A P T E ROneThe stretch of road that leads out of the city, past Hazy Harbor and into the town ofTedia , is perhaps the most unpleasant in the world. It is called Lousy Lane . Lousy Laneruns through fields that are a sickly gray color, in which a handful of scraggly treesproduce apples so sour that one only has to look at them to feel ill. Lousy Lane traversesthe Grim River, a body of water that is nine-tenths mud and that contains extremelyunnerving fish, and it encircles a horseradish factory, so the entire area smells bitter andstrong.I am sorry to tell you that this story begins with the Baudelaire orphans traveling alongthis most displeasing road, and that from this moment on, the story only gets worse. Of allthe people in the world who have miserable lives— and, as I’m sure you know, there arequite a few—the Baudelaire youngsters take the cake, a phrase which here means thatmore horrible things have happened to them than just about anybody. Their misfortunebegan with an enormous fire that destroyed their home and killed both their lovingparents, which is enough sadness to last anyone a lifetime, but in the case of these threechildren it was only the bad beginning. After the fire, the siblings were sent to live with adistant relative named Count Olaf, a terrible and greedy man. The Baudelaire parents hadleft behind an enormous fortune, which would go to the children when Violet came of age,and Count Olaf was so obsessed with getting his filthy hands on the money that hehatched a devious plan that gives me nightmares to this day. He was caught just in time,but he escaped and vowed to get ahold of the Baudelaire fortune sometime in the future.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny still had nightmares about Count Loafs shiny, shiny eyes, andabout his one scraggly eyebrow, and most of all about the tattoo of an eye he had on hisankle. It seemed like that eye was watching the Baudelaire orphans wherever they went.So I must tell you that if you have opened this book in the hope of finding out that thechildren lived happily ever after, you might as well shut it and read something else.Because Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, sitting in a small, cramped car and staring out thewindows at Lousy Lane, were heading toward even more misery and woe. The GrimRiver and the horseradish factory were only the first of a sequence of tragic andunpleasant episodes that bring a frown to my face and a tear to my eye whenever I thinkabout them.The driver of the car was Mr. Poe, a family friend who worked at a bank and alwayshad a cough. He was in charge of overseeing the orphans’ affairs, so it was he who decidedthat the children would be placed in the care of a distant relative in the country after all theunpleasantness with Count Olaf.“I’m sorry if you’re uncomfortable,” Mr. Poe said, coughing into a white handkerchief,“but this new car of mine doesn’t fit too many people. We couldn’t even fit any of yoursuitcases. In a week or so I’ll drive back here and bring them to you.”“Thank you,” said Violet, who at fourteen was the oldest of the Baudelaire children.Anyone who knew Violet well could see that her mind was not really on what Mr. Poe wassaying, because her long hair was tied up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes. Violet wasan inventor, and when she was thinking up inventions she liked to tie her hair up this way.It helped her think clearly about the various gears, wires, and ropes involved in most ofher creations.“After living so long in the city,” Mr. Poe continued, “I think you will find thecountryside to be a pleasant change. Oh, here is the turn. We’re almost there.”“Good,” Klaus said quietly. Klaus, like many people on car rides, was very bored, andhe was sad not to have a book with him. Klaus loved to read, and at approximately twelveyears of age had read more books than many people read in their whole lives. Sometimeshe read well into the night, and in the morning could be found fast asleep, with a book inhis hand and his glasses still on.“I think you’ll like Dr. Montgomery, too,” Mr. Poe said. “He has traveled a great deal,so he has plenty of stories to tell. I’ve heard his house is filled with things he’s broughtfrom all the places he’s been.”“Bax!” Sunny shrieked. Sunny, the youngest of the Baudelaire orphans, often talkedlike this, as infants tend to do. In fact, besides biting things with her four very sharp teeth,speaking in fragments was how Sunny spent most of her time. It was often difficult to tellwhat she meant to say. At this moment she probably meant something along the lines of“I’m nervous about meeting a new relative.” All three children were.“How exactly is Dr. Montgomery related to us?” Klaus asked.“Dr. Montgomery is—let me see—your late father’s cousin’s wife’s brother. I thinkthat’s right. He’s a scientist of some sort, and receives a great deal of money from thegovernment.” As a banker, Mr. Poe was always interested in money.“What should we call him?” Klaus asked.“You should call him Dr. Montgomery,” Mr. Poe replied, “unless he tells you to callhim Montgomery. Both his first and last names are Montgomery , so it doesn’t really makemuch difference.”“His name is Montgomery Montgomery?” Klaus said, smiling.“Yes, and I’m sure he’s very sensitive about that, so don’t ridicule him,” Mr. Poe said,coughing again into his handkerchief. “‘Ridicule’ means ‘tease.’”Klaus sighed. “I know what ‘ridicule’ means,” he said. He did not add that of course healso knew not to make fun of someone’s name. Occasionally, people thought that becausethe orphans were unfortunate, they were also dim-witted.Violet sighed too, and took the ribbon out of her hair. She had been trying to think up aninvention that would block the smell of horseradish from reaching one’s nose, but she wastoo nervous about meeting Dr. Montgomery to focus on it. “Do you know what sort ofscientist he is?” she asked. She was thinking Dr. Montgomery might have a laboratory thatwould be of use to her.“I’m afraid not,” Mr. Poe admitted. “I’ve been very busy making the arrangements foryou three, and I didn’t have much time for chitchat. Oh, here’s the driveway. We’vearrived.”Mr. Poe pulled the car up a steep gravel driveway and toward an enormous stone house.The house had a square front door made of dark wood, with several columns marking thefront porch. To each side of the door were lights in the shapes of torches, which werebrightly lit even though it was morning. Above the front door, the house had rows androws of square windows, most of which were open to let in the breeze. But in front of thehouse was what was truly unusual: a vast, well-kept lawn, dotted with long, thin shrubs inremarkable shapes. As Mr. Poe’s car came to a halt, the Baudelaires could see that theshrubs had been trimmed so as to look like snakes. Each hedge was a different kind ofserpent, some long, some short, some with their tongues out and some with their mouthsopen, showing green, fearsome teeth. They were quite eerie, and Violet, Klaus, and Sunnywere a bit hesitant about walking beside them on their way up to the house.Mr. Poe, who led the way, didn’t seem to notice the hedges at all, possibly because hewas busy coaching the children on how to behave. “Now, Klaus, don’t ask too manyquestions right away. Violet, what happened to the ribbon in your hair? I thought youlooked very distinguished in it. And somebody please make sure Sunny doesn’t bite Dr.Montgomery. That wouldn’t be a good first impression.”Mr. Poe stepped up to the door and rang a doorbell that was one of the loudest thechildren had ever heard. After a moment’s pause, they could hear approaching footsteps,and Violet, Klaus, and Sunny all looked at one another. They had no way of knowing, ofcourse, that very soon there would be more misfortune within their unlucky family, butthey nevertheless felt uneasy. Would Dr. Montgomery be a kind person? they wondered.Would he at least be better than Count Olaf? Could he possibly be worse?The door creaked open slowly, and the Baudelaire orphans held their breath as theypeered into the dark entryway. They saw a dark burgundy carpet that lay on the floor. Theysaw a stained-glass light fixture that dangled from the ceiling. They saw a large oilpainting of two snakes entwined together that hung on the wall. But where was Dr.Montgomery?“Hello?” Mr. Poe called out. “Hello?”“Hello hello hello!” a loud voice boomed out, and from behind the door stepped a short,chubby man with a round red face. “I am your Uncle Monty, and this is really perfecttiming! I just finished making a coconut cream cake!”C H A P T E RTwo“ Doesn’t Sunny like coconut?” Uncle Monty asked. He, Mr. Poe, and the Baudelaireorphans were all sitting around a bright green table, each with a slice of Uncle Monty’scake. Both the kitchen and the cake were still warm from baking. The cake was amagnificent thing, rich and creamy with the perfect amount of coconut. Violet, Klaus, andUncle Monty were almost finished with their pieces, but Mr. Poe and Sunny had takenonly one small bite each.“To tell you the truth,” Violet said, “Sunny doesn’t really like anything soft to eat. Sheprefers very hard food.”“How unusual for a baby,” Uncle Monty said, “but not at all unusual for many snakes.The Barbary Chewer, for example, is a snake that must have something in its mouth at alltimes, otherwise it begins to eat its own mouth. Very difficult to keep in captivity. WouldSunny perhaps like a raw carrot? That’s plenty hard.”“A raw carrot would be perfect, Dr. Montgomery,” Klaus replied.The children’s new legal guardian got up and walked toward the refrigerator, but thenturned around and wagged a finger at Klaus. “None of that ‘Dr. Montgomery’ stuff,” hesaid. “That’s way too stuffy for me. Call me Uncle Monty! Why, my fellow herpetologistsdon’t even call me Dr. Montgomery.”“What are herpetologists?” Violet asked.“What do they call you?” Klaus asked.“Children, children,” Mr. Poe said sternly. “Not so many questions.”Uncle Monty smiled at the orphans. “That’s quite all right,” he said. “Questions showan inquisitive mind. The word ‘inquisitive’ means—”“We know what it means,” Klaus said. “‘Full of questions.’”“Well, if you know what that means,” Uncle Monty said, handing a large carrot toSunny, “then you should know what herpetology is.”“It’s the study of something,” Klaus said. “Whenever a word has ology , it’s the studyof something.”“Snakes!” Uncle Monty cried. “Snakes, snakes, snakes! That’s what I study! I lovesnakes, all kinds, and I circle the globe looking for different kinds to study here in mylaboratory! Isn’t that interesting?”“That is interesting,” Violet said, “very interesting. But isn’t it dangerous?”“Not if you know the facts,” Uncle Monty said. “Mr. Poe, would you like a raw carrotas well? You’ve scarcely touched your cake.”Mr. Poe turned red, and coughed into his handkerchief for quite some time beforereplying, “No, thank you, Dr. Montgomery.”Uncle Monty winked at the children. “If you like, you may call me Uncle Monty aswell , Mr. Poe.”“Thank you, Uncle Monty,” Mr. Poe said stiffly. “Now, I have a question, if you don’tmind. You mentioned that you circle the globe. Is there someone who will come and takecare of the children while you are out collecting specimens?”“We’re old enough to stay by ourselves,” Violet said quickly, but inside she was not sosure. Uncle Monty’s line of work did sound interesting, but she wasn’t sure if she wasready to stay alone with her siblings, in a house full of snakes.“I wouldn’t hear of it,” Uncle Monty said. “You three must come with me. In ten dayswe leave for Peru , and I want you children right there in the jungle with me.”“Really?” Klaus said. Behind his glasses, his eyes were shining with excitement.“You’d really take us to Peru with you?”“I will be glad to have your help,” Uncle Monty said, reaching over to take a bite ofSunny’s piece of cake. “Gustav, my top assistant, left an unexpected letter of resignationfor me just yesterday. There’s a man named Stephano whom I have hired to take his place,but he won’t arrive for a week or so, so I am way behind on preparations for theexpedition. Somebody has to make sure all the snake traps are working, so I don’t hurt anyof our specimens. Somebody has to read up on the terrain of Peru so we can navigatethrough the jungle without any trouble. And somebody has to slice an enormous length ofrope into small, workable pieces.”“I’m interested in mechanics,” Violet said, licking her fork, “so I would be happy tolearn about snake traps.”“I find guidebooks fascinating,” Klaus said, wiping his mouth with a napkin, “so Iwould love to read up on Peruvian terrain.”“Eojip!“ Sunny shrieked, taking a bite of carrot. She probably meant something alongthe lines of ”I would be thrilled to bite an enormous length of rope into small, workablepieces!”“Wonderful!” Uncle Monty cried. “I’m glad you have such enthusiasm. It will make iteasier to do without Gustav. It was very strange, his leaving like that. I was unlucky tolose him.” Uncle Monty’s face clouded over, a phrase which here means “took on aslightly gloomy look as Uncle Monty thought about his bad luck,” although if UncleMonty had known what bad luck was soon to come, he wouldn’t have wasted a momentthinking about Gustav. I wish—and I’m sure you wish as well—that we could go back intime and warn him, but we can’t, and that is that. Uncle Monty seemed to think that wasthat as well, as he shook his head and smiled, clearing his brain of troubling thoughts.“Well, we’d better get started. No time like the present, I always say. Why don’t you showMr. Poe to his car, and then I’ll show you to the Reptile Room.”The three Baudelaire children, who had been so anxious when they had walked throughthe snake-shaped hedges the first time, raced confidently through them now as theyescorted Mr. Poe to his automobile.“Now, children,” Mr. Poe said, coughing into his handkerchief, “I will be back here inabout a week with your luggage and to make sure everything is all right. I know that Dr.Montgomery might seem a bit intimidating to you, but I’m sure in time you will get usedto—”“He doesn’t seem intimidating at all,” Klaus interrupted. “He seems very easy to getalong with.”“I can’t wait to see the Reptile Room,” Violet said excitedly.“Meeka!” Sunny said, which probably meant “Good-bye, Mr. Poe. Thank you fordriving us.”“Well, good-bye,” Mr. Poe said. “Remember, it is just a short drive here from the city,so please contact me or anyone else at Mulctuary Money Management if you have anytrouble. See you soon.” He gave the orphans an awkward little wave with hishandkerchief, got into his small car, and drove back down the steep gravel driveway ontoLousy Lane . Violet, Klaus, and Sunny waved back, hoping that Mr. Poe would rememberto roll up the car windows so the stench of horseradish would not be too unbearable.“Bambini!” Uncle Monty cried out from the front door. “Come along, bambini!”The Baudelaire orphans raced back through the hedges to where their new guardian waswaiting for them. “Violet, Uncle Monty,” Violet said. “My name is Violet, my brother’s isKlaus, and Sunny is our baby sister. None of us is named Bambini.”“‘Bambini’ is the Italian word for ‘children,’” Uncle Monty explained.“ I had a suddenurge to speak a little Italian. I’m so excited to have you three here with me, you’re luckyI’m not speaking gibberish.”“Have you never had any children of your own?” Violet asked.“I’m afraid not,” Uncle Monty said. “I always meant to find a wife and start a family,but it just kept slipping my mind. Shall I show you the Reptile Room?”“Yes, please,” Klaus said.Uncle Monty led them past the painting of snakes in the entryway into a large roomwith a grand staircase and very, very high ceilings. “Your rooms will be up there,” UncleMonty said, gesturing up the stairs. “You can each choose whatever room you like andmove the furniture around to suit your taste. I understand that Mr. Poe has to bring yourluggage later in that puny car of his, so please make a list of anything you might need andwe’ll go into town tomorrow and buy it so you don’t have to spend the next few days inthe same underwear.”“Do we really each get our own room?” Violet asked.“Of course,” Uncle Monty said. “You don’t think I’d coop you all up in one room whenI have this enormous house, do you? What sort of person would do that?”“Count Olaf did,” Klaus said.“Oh, that’s right, Mr. Poe told me,” Uncle Monty said, grimacing as if he had just tastedsomething terrible. “Count Olaf sounds like an awful person. I hope he is torn apart bywild animals someday. Wouldn’t that be satisfying? Oh, well, here we are: the ReptileRoom.”Uncle Monty had reached a very tall wooden door with a large doorknob right in themiddle of it. It was so high up that he had to stand on his tiptoes to open it. When it swungopen on its creaky hinges, the Baudelaire orphans all gasped in astonishment and delightat the room they saw.The Reptile Room was made entirely out of glass, with bright, clear glass walls and ahigh glass ceiling that rose up to a point like the inside of a cathedral. Outside the wallswas a bright green field of grasses and shrubs which was of course perfectly visiblethrough the transparent walls, so standing in the Reptile Room was like being inside andoutside at the same time. But as remarkable as the room itself was, what was inside theReptile Room was much more exciting. Reptiles, of course, were lined up in locked metalcages that sat on wooden tables in four neat rows all the way down the room. There wereall sorts of snakes, naturally, but there were also lizards, toads, and assorted other animalsthat the children had never seen before, not even in pictures, or at the zoo. There was avery fat toad with two wings coming out of its back, and a two headed lizard that hadbright yellow stripes on its belly. There was a snake that had three mouths, one on top ofthe other, and another that seemed to have no mouth at all. There was a lizard that lookedlike an owl, with wide eyes that gazed at them from the log on which it was perched in itscage, and a toad that looked just like a church, complete with stained-glass eyes. Andthere was a cage with a white cloth on top of it, so you couldn’t see what was inside at all.The children walked down the aisles of cages, peering into each one in amazed silence.Some of the creatures looked friendly, and some of them looked scary, but all of themlooked fascinating, and the Baudelaires took a long, careful look at each one, with Klausholding Sunny up so she could see.The orphans were so interested in the cages that they didn’t even notice what was at thefar end of the Reptile Room until they had walked the length of each aisle, but once theyreached the far end they gasped in astonishment and delight once more. For here, at theend of the rows and rows of cages, were rows and rows of bookshelves, each one stuffedwith books of different sizes and shapes, with a cluster of tables, chairs, and reading lampsin one corner. I’m sure you remember that the Baudelaire children’s parents had anenormous collection of books, which the orphans remembered fondly and misseddreadfully, and since the terrible fire, the children were always delighted to meet someonewho loved books as much as they did. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny examined the books ascarefully as they had the reptile cages, and realized immediately that most of the bookswere about snakes and other reptiles. It seemed as if every book written on reptiles, fromAn Introduction to Large Lizards to The Care and Feeding of the Androgynous Cobra,were lined up on the shelves, and all three children, Klaus especially, looked forward toreading up on the creatures in the Reptile Room.“This is an amazing place,” Violet said finally, breaking the long silence.“Thank you,” Uncle Monty said. “It’s taken me a lifetime to put together.”“And are we really allowed to come inside here?” Klaus asked.“Allowed?” Uncle Monty repeated. “Of course not! You are implored to come insidehere, my boy. Starting first thing tomorrow morning, all of us must be here every day inpreparation for the expedition to Peru. I will clear off one of those tables for you, Violet, towork on the traps. Klaus, I expect you to read all of the books about Peru that I have, andmake careful notes. And Sunny can sit on the floor and bite rope. We will work all dayuntil suppertime, and after supper we will go to the movies. Are there any objections?”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked at one another and grinned. Any objections? TheBaudelaire orphans had just been living with Count Olaf, who had made them chop woodand clean up after his drunken guests, while plotting to steal their fortune. Uncle Montyhad just described a delightful way to spend one’s time, and the children smiled at himeagerly. Of course there would be no objections. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny gazed at theReptile Room and envisioned an end to their troubles as they lived their lives under UncleMonty’s care. They were wrong, of course, about their misery being over, but for themoment the three siblings were hopeful, excited, and happy.“No, no, no,” Sunny cried out, in apparent answer to Uncle Monty’s question.“Good, good, good,” Uncle Monty said, smiling. “Now, let’s go figure out whose roomis whose.”“Uncle Monty?” Klaus asked shyly. “I just have one question.”“What is that?” Uncle Monty said.“What’s in that cage with the cloth on top of it?”Uncle Monty looked at the cage, and then at the children. His face lit up with a smile ofpure joy. “That, my dears, is a new snake which I brought over from my last journey.Gustav and myself are the only people to have seen it. Next month I will present it to theHerpetological Society as a new discovery, but in the meantime I will allow you to look atit. Gather ‘round.”The Baudelaire orphans followed Uncle Monty to the cloth-covered cage, and with aflourish—the word “flourish” here means “a sweeping gesture, often used to show off—heswooped the cloth off the cage. Inside was a large black snake, as dark as a coal mine andas thick as a sewer pipe, looking right at the orphans with shiny green eyes. With the clothoff its cage, the snake began to uncoil itself and slither around its home.“Because I discovered it,” Uncle Monty said, “I got to name it.”“What is it called?” Violet asked.“The Incredibly Deadly Viper,” Uncle Monty replied, and at that moment somethinghappened which I’m sure will interest you. With one flick of its tail, the snake unlatchedthe door of its cage and slithered out onto the table, and before Uncle Monty or any of theBaudelaire orphans could say anything, it opened its mouth and bit Sunny right on thechin.I am very, very sorry to leave you hanging like that, but as I was writing the tale of theBaudelaire orphans, I happened to look at the clock and realized I was running late for aformal dinner party given by a friend of mine, Madame diLustro. Madame diLustro is agood friend, an excellent detective, and a fine cook, but she flies into a rage if you arriveeven five minutes later than her invitation states, so you understand that I had to dash off.You must have thought, at the end of the previous chapter, that Sunny was dead and thatthis was the terrible thing that happened to the Baudelaires at Uncle Monty’s house, but Ipromise you Sunny survives this particular episode. It is Uncle Monty, unfortunately, whowill be dead, but not yet.As the fangs of the Incredibly Deadly Viper closed on Sunny’s chin, Violet and Klauswatched in horror as Sunny’s little eyes closed and her face grew quiet. Then, moving assuddenly as the snake, Sunny smiled brightly, opened her mouth, and bit the IncrediblyDeadly Viper right on its tiny, scaled nose. The snake let go of her chin, and Violet andKlaus could see that it had left barely a mark. The two older Baudelaire siblings looked atUncle Monty, and Uncle Monty looked back at them and laughed. His loud laughterbounced off the glass walls of the Reptile Room.“Uncle Monty, what can we do?” Klaus said in despair.“Oh, I’m sorry, my dears,” Uncle Monty said, wiping his eyes with his hands. “Youmust be very frightened. But the Incredibly Deadly Viper is one of the least dangerous andmost friendly creatures in the animal kingdom. Sunny has nothing to worry about, andneither do you.”Klaus looked at his baby sister, who was still in his arms, as she playfully gave theIncredibly Deadly Viper a big hug around its thick body, and he realized Uncle Montymust be telling the truth. “But then why is it called the Incredibly Deadly Viper?”Uncle Monty laughed again. “It’s a misnomer,” he said, using a word which here means“a very wrong name.” “Because I discovered it, I got to name it, remember? Don’t tellanyone about the Incredibly Deadly Viper, because I’m going to present it to theHerpetological Society and give them a good scare before explaining that the snake iscompletely harmless! Lord knows they’ve teased me many times, because of my name.‘Hello hello, Montgomery Montgomery,’ they say. ‘How are you how are you,Montgomery Montgomery?’ But at this year’s conference I’m going to get back at themwith this prank.” Uncle Monty drew himself up to his full height and began talking in asilly, scientific voice. “‘Colleagues,’ I’ll say, ‘I would like to introduce to you a newspecies, the Incredibly Deadly Viper, which I found in the southwest forest of—my God!It’s escaped!’ And then, when all my fellow herpetologists have jumped up on chairs andtables and are shrieking in fear, I’ll tell them that the snake wouldn’t hurt a fly! Won’t thatbe hysterical?”Violet and Klaus looked at each other, and then began laughing, half in relief that theirsister was unharmed, and half with amusement, because they thought Uncle Monty’sprank was a good one.Klaus put Sunny down on the floor, and the Incredibly Deadly Viper followed,wriggling its tail affectionately around Sunny, the way you might put your arm aroundsomeone of whom you were fond.“Are there any snakes in this room that are dangerous?” Violet asked.“Of course,” Uncle Monty said. “You can’t study snakes for forty years withoutencountering some dangerous ones. I have a whole cabinet of venom samples from everypoisonous snake known to people, so I can study the ways in which these dangeroussnakes work. There is a snake in this room whose venom is so deadly that your heartwould stop before you even knew he’d bitten you. There is a snake who can open hermouth so wide she could swallow all of us, together, in one gulp. There is a pair of snakeswho have learned to drive a car so recklessly that they would run you over in the streetand never stop to apologize. But all of these snakes are in cages with much sturdier locks,and all of them can be handled safely when one has studied them enough. I promise that ifyou take time to learn the facts, no harm will come to you here in the Reptile Room.”There is a type of situation, which occurs all too often and which is occurring at thispoint in the story of the Baudelaire orphans, called “dramatic irony.” Simply put, dramaticirony is when a person makes a harmless remark, and someone else who hears it knowssomething that makes the remark have a different, and usually unpleasant, meaning. Forinstance, if you were in a restaurant and said out loud, “I can’t wait to eat the veal marsalaI ordered,” and there were people around who knew that the veal marsala was poisonedand that you would die as soon as you took a bite, your situation would be one of dramaticirony. Dramatic irony is a cruel occurrence, one that is almost always upsetting, and I’msorry to have it appear in this story, but Violet, Klaus, and Sunny have such unfortunatelives that it was only a matter of time before dramatic irony would rear its ugly head.As you and I listen to Uncle Monty tell the three Baudelaire orphans that no harm willever come to them in the Reptile Room, we should be experiencing the strange feeling thataccompanies the arrival of dramatic irony. This feeling is not unlike the sinking in one’sstomach when one is in an elevator that suddenly goes down, or when you are snug in bedand your closet door suddenly creaks open to reveal the person who has been hiding there.For no matter how safe and happy the three children felt, no matter how comforting UncleMonty’s words were, you and I know that soon Uncle Monty will be dead and theBaudelaires will be miserable once again.During the week that followed, however, the Baudelaires had a wonderful time in theirnew home. Each morning, they woke up and dressed in the privacy of their very ownrooms, which they had chosen and decorated to their liking. Violet had chosen a room thathad an enormous window looking out onto the snake-shaped hedges on the front lawn.She thought such a view might inspire her when she was inventing things. Uncle Montyhad allowed her to tack up large pieces of white paper on each wall, so she could sketchout her ideas, even if they came to her in the middle of the night. Klaus had chosen a roomwith a cozy alcove in it—the word “alcove” here means “a very, very small nook justperfect for sitting and reading.” With Uncle Monty’s permission, he had carried up a largecushioned chair from the living room and placed it right in the alcove, under a heavy brassreading lamp. Each night, rather than reading in bed, he would curl himself in the chairwith a book from Uncle Monty’s library, sometimes until morning. Sunny had chosen aroom right between Violet’s and Klaus’s, and filled it with small, hard objects from allover the house, so she could bite them when she felt like it. There were also assorted toysfor the Incredibly Deadly Viper so the two of them could play together whenever theywanted, within reason. But where the Baudelaire orphans most liked to be was the ReptileRoom. Each morning, after breakfast, they would join Uncle Monty, who would havealready started work on the upcoming expedition. Violet sat at a table with the ropes,gears, and cages that made up the different snake traps, learning how they worked,repairing them if they were broken, and occasionally making improvements to make thetraps more comfortable for the snakes on their long journey from Peru to Uncle Monty’shouse. Klaus sat nearby, reading the books on Peru Uncle Monty had and taking notes ona pad of paper so they could refer to them later. And Sunny sat on the floor, biting a longrope into shorter pieces with great enthusiasm. But what the Baudelaire youngsters likedbest was learning all about the reptiles from Uncle Monty. As they worked, he wouldshow them the Alaskan Cow Lizard, a long green creature that produced delicious milk.They met the Dissonant Toad, which could imitate human speech in a gravelly voice.Uncle Monty taught them how to handle the Inky Newt without getting its black dye allover their fingers, and how to tell when the Irascible Python was grumpy and best leftalone. He taught them not to give the Green Gimlet Toad too much water, and to never,under any circumstances, let the Virginian Wolf snake near a typewriter.While he was telling them about the different reptiles, Uncle Monty would often segue— a word which here means “let the conversation veer off—to stories from his travels,describing the men, snakes, women, toads, children, and lizards he’d met on his journeys.And before too long, the Baudelaire orphans were telling Uncle Monty all about their ownlives, eventually talking about their parents and how much they missed them. UncleMonty was as interested in the Baudelaires’ stories as they were in his, and sometimesthey got to talking so long they scarcely had time to gobble down dinner before crammingthemselves into Uncle Monty’s tiny jeep and heading to the movies.One morning, however, when the three children finished their breakfast and went intothe Reptile Room, they found not Uncle Monty, but a note from him. The note read asfollows:Dear Bambini,I have gone into town to buy a few last things we need for the expedition: Peruvianwasp repellent, toothbrushes, canoed peaches, and a fireproof canoe. It will take a while tofind the peaches, so don’t expect me back until dinnertime.Stephano, Gustav’s replacement, will arrive today by taxi. Please make him feelwelcome. As you know, it is only two days until the expedition, so please work very hardtoday.Your giddy uncle,Monty“What does ‘giddy’ mean?” Violet asked, when they had finished reading the note.“‘Dizzy and excited,’” Klaus said, having learned the word from a collection of poetry.“Kindal!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “Or maybe he’s excited about allthese things”“I’m a little giddy myself,” Klaus said. “It’s really fun to live with Uncle Monty.”“It certainly is,” Violet agreed. “After the fire, I thought I would never be happy again.But our time here has been wonderful.”“I still miss our parents, though,” Klaus said. “No matter how nice Uncle Monty is, Iwish we still lived in our real home.”“Of course,” Violet said quickly. She paused, and slowly said out loud something shehad been thinking about for the past few days. “I think we’ll always miss our parents. ButI think we can miss them without being miserable all the time. After all, they wouldn’twant us to be miserable.”“Remember that time,” Klaus said wistfully, “when we were bored one rainy afternoon,and all of us painted our toenails bright red?”“Yes,” Violet said, grinning, “and I spilled some on the yellow chair.”“Archo!” Sunny said quietly, which probably meant something like “And the stainnever really came out.” The Baudelaire orphans smiled at each other and, without a word,began to do the day’s work. For the rest of the morning they worked quietly and steadily,realizing that their contentment here at Uncle Monty’s house did not erase their parents’death, not at all, but at least it made them feel better after feeling so sad, for so long.It is unfortunate, of course, that this quiet happy moment was the last one thechildren would have for quite some time, but there is nothing anyone can do about it now.Just when the Baudelaires were beginning to think about lunch, they heard a car pull up infront of the house and toot its horn. To the children it signaled the arrival of Stephano. Tous it should signal the beginning of more misery.“I expect that’s the new assistant,” Klaus said, looking up from The Big Peruvian Bookof Small Peruvian Snakes. “I hope he’s as nice as Monty.”“Me too,” Violet said, opening and shutting a toad trap to make sure it workedsmoothly. “It would be unpleasant to travel to Peru with somebody who was boring ormean.”“Gerja!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “Well, let’s go find outwhat Stephano is like!”The Baudelaires left the Reptile Room and walked out the front door to find a taxiparked next to the snake-shaped hedges. A very tall, thin man with a long beard and noeyebrows over his eyes was getting out of the backseat, carrying a black suitcase with ashiny silver padlock.“I’m not going to give you a tip,” the bearded man was saying to the driver of the taxi,“because you talk too much. Not everybody wants to hear about your new baby, youknow. Oh, hello there. I am Stephano, Dr. Montgomery’s new assistant. How do you do?”“How do you do?” Violet said, and as she approached him, there was something abouthis wheezy voice that seemed vaguely familiar.“How do you do?” Klaus said, and as he looked up at Stephano, there was somethingabout his shiny eyes that seemed quite familiar.“Hooda!” Sunny shrieked. Stephano wasn’t wearing any socks, and Sunny, crawling onthe ground, could see his bare ankle between his pant cuff and his shoe. There on his anklewas something that was most familiar of all.The Baudelaire orphans all realized the same thing at the same time, and took a stepback as you might from a growling dog. This man wasn’t Stephano, no matter what hecalled himself. The three children looked at Uncle Monty’s new assistant from head to toeand saw that he was none other than Count Olaf. He may have shaved off his one longeyebrow, and grown a beard over his scraggly chin, but there was no way he could hidethe tattoo of an eye on his ankle.C H A P T E RFourOne of the most difficult things to think about in life is one’s regrets. Something willhappen to you, and you will do the wrong thing, and for years afterward you will wish youhad done something different. For instance, sometimes when I am walking along theseashore, or visiting the grave of a friend, I will remember a day, a long time ago, when Ididn’t bring a flashlight with me to a place where I should have brought a flashlight, andthe results were disastrous. Why didn’t I bring a flashlight? I think to myself, even thoughit is too late to do anything about it. I should have brought a flashlight.For years after this moment in the lives of the Baudelaire orphans, Klaus thought of thetime when he and his siblings realized that Stephano was actually Count Olaf, and wasfilled with regret that he didn’t call out to the driver of the taxicab who was beginning todrive back down the driveway. Stop! Klaus would think to himself, even though it was toolate to do anything about it. Stop! Take this man away! Of course, it is perfectlyunderstandable that Klaus and his sisters were too surprised to act so quickly, but Klauswould lie awake in bed, years later, thinking that maybe, just maybe, if he had acted intime, he could have saved Uncle Monty’s life.But he didn’t. As the Baudelaire orphans stared at Count Olaf, the taxi drove backdown the driveway and the children were alone with their nemesis, a word which heremeans “the worst enemy you could imagine.” Olaf smiled at them the way Uncle Monty’sMongolian Meansnake would smile when a white mouse was placed in its cage each dayfor dinner. “Perhaps one of you might carry my suitcase into my room,” he suggested inhis wheezy voice. “The ride along that smelly road was dull and unpleasant and I am verytired.”“If anyone ever deserved to travel along Lousy Lane ,” Violet said, glaring at him, “it isyou, Count Olaf. We will certainly not help you with your luggage, because we will not letyou in this house.”Olaf frowned at the orphans, and then looked this way and that as if he expected to seesomeone hiding behind the snake-shaped hedges. “Who is Count Olaf?” he askedquizzically. “My name is Stephano. I am here to assist Montgomery Montgomery with hisupcoming expedition to Peru . I assume you three are midgets who work as servants in theMontgomery home.”“We are not midgets,” Klaus said sternly.“ We are children. And you are not Stephano.You are Count Olaf. You may have grown a beard and shaved your eyebrow, but you arestill the same despicable person and we will not let you in this house.”“Futa!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “I agree!”Count Olaf looked at each of the Baudelaire orphans, his eyes shining brightly as if hewere telling a joke. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said, “but if I did, and Iwere this Count Olaf you speak of, I would think that you were being very rude. And if Ithought you were rude, I might get angry. And if I got angry, who knows what I woulddo?”The children watched as Count Olaf raised his scrawny arms in a sort of shrug. Itprobably isn’t necessary to remind you just how violent he could be, but it certainly wasn’tnecessary at all to remind the Baudelaires. Klaus could still feel the bruise on his facefrom the time Count Olaf had struck him, when they were living in his house. Sunny stillached from being stuffed into a birdcage and dangled from the tower where he made hisevil plans. And while Violet had not been the victim of any physical violence from thisterrible man, she had almost been forced to marry him, and that was enough to make herpick up his suitcase and drag it slowly toward the door to the house.“Higher,” Olaf said. “Lift it higher. I don’t want it dragged along the ground like that.”Klaus and Sunny hurried to help Violet with the suitcase, but even with the three ofthem carrying it the weight made them stagger. It was misery enough that Count Olaf hadreappeared in their lives, just when they were feeling so comfortable and safe with UncleMonty. But to actually be helping this awful person enter their home was almost morethan they could bear. Olaf followed closely behind them and the three children could smellhis stale breath as they brought the suitcase indoors and set it on the carpet beneath thepainting of the entwined snakes.“Thank you, orphans,” Olaf said, shutting the front door behind him. “Now, Dr.Montgomery said my room would be waiting upstairs. I suppose I can carry my luggagefrom here. Now run along. We’ll have lots of time to get to know one another later.”“We already know you, Count Olaf,” Violet said. “You obviously haven’t changed abit.”“You haven’t changed, either,” Olaf said. “It is clear to me, Violet, that you are asstubborn as ever. And Klaus, you are still wearing those idiotic glasses from reading toomany books. And I see that little Sunny here still has nine toes instead of ten.”“Fut!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “I do not!”“What are you talking about?” Klaus said impatiently. “She has ten toes, just likeeverybody else.”“Really?” Olaf said. “That’s odd. I remember that she lost one of her toes in anaccident.” His eyes shone even brighter, as if he were telling a joke, and he reached intothe pocket of his shabby coat and brought out a long knife, such as one might use forslicing bread. “I seem to recall there was a man who was so confused by being calledrepeatedly by the wrong name that he accidentally dropped a knife on her little foot andsevered one of her toes.”Violet and Klaus looked at Count Olaf, and then at the bare foot of their little sister.“You wouldn’t dare,” Klaus said.“Let’s not discuss what I would or would not dare to do,” Olaf said. “Let us discuss,rather, what I am to be called for as long as we are together in this house.”“We’ll call you Stephano, if you insist on threatening us,” Violet said, “but we won’t betogether in this house for long.”Stephano opened his mouth to say something, but Violet was not interested incontinuing the conversation. She turned on her heel and marched primly through theenormous door of the Reptile Room, followed by her siblings. If you or I had been there,we would have thought that the Baudelaire orphans weren’t scared at all, speaking sobravely like that to Stephano and then simply walking away, but once the children reachedthe far end of the room, their true emotions showed clearly on their faces. The Baudelaireswere terrified. Violet put her hands over her face and leaned against one of the reptilecages. Klaus sank into a chair, trembling so hard that his feet rattled against the marblefloor. And Sunny curled up into a little ball on the floor, so tiny you might have missed herif you walked into the room. For several moments, none of the children spoke, justlistened to the muffled sounds of Stephano walking up the stairs and their own heartbeatspounding in their ears.“How did he find us?” Klaus asked. His voice was a hoarse whisper, as if he had a sorethroat. “How did he get to be Uncle Monty’s assistant? What is he doing here?”“He vowed that he’d get his hands on the Baudelaire fortune,” Violet said, taking herhands away from her face and picking up Sunny, who was shivering. “That was the lastthing he said to me before he escaped. He said he’d get our fortune if it was the last thinghe ever did.” Violet shuddered, and did not add that he’d also said that once he got theirfortune, he’d do away with all three of the Baudelaire siblings. She did not need to add it.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny all knew that if he figured out a way to seize their fortune, hewould slit the throats of the Baudelaire orphans as easily as you or I might eat a smallbutter cookie.“What can we do?” Klaus asked. “Uncle Monty won’t be back for hours.”“Maybe we can call Mr. Poe,” Violet said. “It’s the middle of business hours, but maybehe could leave the bank for an emergency.”“He wouldn’t believe us,” Klaus said. “Remember when we tried to tell him aboutCount Olaf when we lived there? He took such a long time to realize the truth, it wasalmost too late, I think we should run away. It” we leave right now, we could probably getto town in time to catch a train far away from here.”Violet pictured the three of them, all alone, walking along Lousy Lane beneath the sourapple trees, with the bitter smell of horseradish encircling them. “Where would we go?”she asked.“Anywhere,” Klaus said. “Anywhere but here. We could go far away where CountOlaf wouldn’t find us, and change our names so no one would know who we were.”“We haven’t any money,” Violet pointed out. “How could we live by ourselves?”“We could get jobs,” Klaus replied. “I could work in a library, maybe, and you couldwork in some sort of mechanical factory. Sunny probably couldn’t get a job at her age, butin a few years she could.”The three orphans were quiet. They tried to picture leaving Uncle Monty and living bythemselves, trying to find jobs and take care of each other. It was a very lonely prospect.The Baudelaire children sat in sad silence awhile, and they were each thinking the samething: They wished that their parents had never been killed in the fire, and that their liveshad never been turned topsy-turvy the way they had. If only the Baudelaire parents werestill alive, the youngsters wouldn’t even have heard of Count Olaf, let alone have himsettling into their home and undoubtedly making evil plans.“We can’t leave,” Violet said finally. “Count Olaf found us once, and I’m sure he’d findus again, no matter how far we went. Plus, who knows where Count Olaf’s assistants are?Perhaps they’ve surrounded the house right now, keeping watch in case we’re on to him.”Klaus shivered. He hadn’t been thinking of Olaf’s assistants. Besides scheming to gethis hands on the Baudelaire fortune, Olaf was the leader of a terrible theater troupe, andhis fellow actors were always ready to help him with his plans. They were a gruesomecrew, each more terrifying than the next. There was a bald man with a long nose, whoalways wore a black robe. There were two women who always had ghostly white powderon their faces. There was a person so large and blank-looking that you couldn’t tell if itwas a man or a woman. And there was a skinny man with two hooks where his handsshould have been. Violet was right. Any of these people could be lurking outside UncleMonty’s house, waiting to catch them if they tried to escape.A Series of Unfortunate Events 2- TheReptile Room“I think we should just wait for Uncle Monty to come back, and tell him what hashappened,” Violet said. “He’ll believe us. If we tell him about the tattoo, he’ll at least askStephano for an explanation.” Violet’s tone of voice when she said “Stephano” indicatedher utter scorn for Olaf’s disguise.“Are you sure?” Klaus said. “After all, Uncle Monty is the one who hired Stephano”Klaus’s tone of voice when he said “Stephano” indicated that he shared his sister’sfeelings. “For all we know, Uncle Monty and Stephano have planned something together.”“Minda!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “Don’t be ridiculous,Klaus!”Violet shook her head. “Sunny’s right. I can’t believe that Uncle Monty would be incahoots with Olaf. He’s been so kind and generous to us, and besides, if they wereworking together, Olaf wouldn’t insist on using a different name.”“That’s true,” Klaus said thoughtfully. “So we wait for Uncle Monty.”“We wait,” Violet agreed.“Tojoo,” Sunny said solemnly, and the siblings looked at one another glumly.Waiting is one of life’s hardships. It is hard enough to wait for chocolate cream piewhile burnt roast beef is still on your plate. It is plenty difficult to wait for Halloweenwhen the tedious month of September is still ahead of you. But to wait for one’s adopteduncle to come home while a greedy and violent man is upstairs was one of the worst waitsthe Baudelaires had ever experienced. To get their mind off it, they tried to continue withtheir work, but the children were too anxious to get anything done. Violet tried to fix ahinged door on one of the traps, but all she could concentrate on was the knot of worry inher stomach. Klaus tried to read about protecting oneself from thorny Peruvian plants, butthoughts of Stephano kept clouding his brain. And Sunny tried to bite rope, but she had acold chill of fear running through her teeth and she soon gave up. She didn’t even feel likeplaying with the Incredibly Deadly Viper. So the Baudelaires spent the rest of theafternoon sitting silently in the Reptile Room, looking out the window for Uncle Monty’sjeep and listening to the occasional noise from upstairs. They didn’t even want to thinkabout what Stephano might be unpacking.Finally, as the snake-shaped hedges began to cast long, skinny shadows in the settingsun, the three children heard an approaching engine, and the jeep pulled up. A large canoewas strapped to the roof of the jeep, and the backseat was piled with Monty’s purchases.Uncle Monty got out, struggling under the weight of several shopping bags, and saw thechildren through the glass walls of the Reptile Room. He smiled at them. They smiledback, and in that instant when they smiled was created another moment of regret for them.Had they not paused to smile at Monty but instead gone dashing out to the car, they mighthave had a brief moment alone with him. But by the time they reached the entry hall, hewas already talking to Stephano.“I didn’t know what kind of toothbrush you preferred,” Uncle Monty was sayingapologetically, “so I got you one with extra-firm bristles because that’s the kind I like.Peruvian food tends to be sticky, so you need to have at least one extra toothbrushwhenever you go there.”“Extra-firm bristles are fine with me,” Stephano said, speaking to Uncle Monty butlooking at the orphans with his shiny, shiny eyes. “Shall I carry in the canoe?”“Yes, but my goodness, you can’t carry it all by yourself,” Uncle Monty said. “Klaus,please help Stephano, will you?”“Uncle Monty,” Violet said, “we have something very important to tell you.”“I’m all ears,” Uncle Monty said, “but first let me show you the wasp repellent I pickedup. I’m so glad Klaus read up on the insect situation in Peru , because the other repellentsI have would have been no use at all.” Uncle Monty rooted through one of the bags on hisarm as the children waited impatiently for him to finish. “This one contains a chemicalcalled—”“Uncle Monty,” Klaus said, “what we have to tell you really can’t wait.”“Klaus,” Uncle Monty said, his eyebrows rising in surprise, “it’s not polite to interruptwhen your uncle is talking. Now, please help Stephano with the canoe, and we’ll talkabout anything you want in a few moments.”Klaus sighed, but followed Stephano out the open door. Violet watched them walkingtoward the jeep as Uncle Monty put down the shopping hags and faced her. “I can’tremember what I was saying about the repellent,” he said, a little crossly. “I hate losingmy train of thought.”“What we have to tell you,” Violet began, but she stopped when something caught hereye. Monty was facing away from the door, so he couldn’t see what Stephano was doing,but Violet saw Stephano stop at the snake-shaped hedges, reach into his coat pocket, andtake out the long knife. Its blade caught the light of the setting sun and it glowed brightly,like a lighthouse. As you probably know, lighthouses serve as warning signals, tellingships where the shore is so they don’t run into it. The shining knife was a warning, too.Klaus looked at the knife, and then at Stephano, and then at Violet. Violet looked atKlaus, and then at Stephano, and then at Monty. Sunny looked at everyone. Only Montydidn’t notice what was going on, so intent was he on remembering whatever he wasbabbling about wasp repellent. “What we have to tell you,” Violet began again, but shecouldn’t continue. Stephano didn’t say a word. He didn’t have to. Violet knew that if shebreathed one word about his true identity, Stephano would hurt her brother, right there atthe snake-shaped hedges. Without saying a word, the nemesis of the Baudelaire orphanshad sent a very clear warning.C H A P T E RFiveThat night felt like the longest and most terrible the Baudelaire orphans had ever had,and they’d had plenty. There was one night, shortly after Sunny was born, that all threechildren had a horrible flu, and tossed and turned in the grasp of a terrible fever, whiletheir father tried to soothe them all at once, placing cold washcloths on their sweatybrows. The night after their parents had been killed, the three children had stayed at Mr.Poe’s house, and had stayed up all night, too miserable and confused to even try to sleep.And of course, they had spent many a long and terrible night while living with Count Olaf.But this particular night seemed worse. From the moment of Monty’s arrival untilbedtime, Stephano kept the children under his constant surveillance, a phrase which heremeans “kept watching them so they couldn’t possibly talk to Uncle Monty alone andreveal that he was really Count Olaf,” and Uncle Monty was too preoccupied to think thatanything unusual was going on. When they brought in the rest of Uncle Monty’spurchases, Stephano carried bags with only one hand, keeping the other one in his coatpocket where the long knife was hidden, but Uncle Monty was too excited about all thenew supplies to ask about it. When they went into the kitchen to prepare dinner, Stephanosmiled menacingly at the children as he sliced mushrooms, but Uncle Monty was too busymaking sure the stroganoff sauce didn’t boil to even notice that Stephano was using hisown threatening knife for the chopping. Over dinner, Stephano told funny stories andpraised Monty’s scientific work, and Uncle Monty was so flattered he didn’t even think toguess that Stephano was holding a knife under the table, rubbing the blade gently againstViolet’s knee for the entire meal. And when Uncle Monty announced that he would spendthe evening showing his new assistant around the Reptile Room, he was too eager torealize that the Baudelaires simply went up to bed without a word.For the first time, having individual bedrooms seemed like a hardship rather than aluxury, for without one another’s company the orphans felt even more lonely and helpless.Violet stared at the paper tacked to her wall and tried to imagine what Stephano wasplanning. Klaus sat in his large cushioned chair and turned on his brass reading lamp butwas too worried to even open a book. Sunny stared at her hard objects but didn’t bite asingle one of them.All three children thought of walking down the hall to Uncle Monty’s room and wakinghim up to tell him what was wrong. But to get to his bedroom, they would have to walkpast the room in which Stephano was staying, and all night long Stephano kept watch in achair placed in front of his open door. When the orphans opened their doors to peer downthe dark hallway, they saw Stephano’s pale, shaved head, which seemed to be floatingabove his body in the darkness. And they could see his knife, which Stephano was movingslowly like the pendulum of a grandfather clock. Back and forth it went, back and forth,glinting in the dim light, and the sight was so fearsome they didn’t dare try walking downthe hallway.Finally, the light in the house turned the pale blue-gray of early dawn, and theBaudelaire children walked blearily down the stairs to breakfast, tired and achy from theirsleepless night. They sat around the table where they had eaten cake on their first morningat the house, and picked listlessly at their food. For the first time since their arrival atUncle Monty’s, they were not eager to enter the Reptile Room and begin the day’s work.“I suppose we have to go in now,” Violet said finally, putting aside her scarcely nibbledtoast. “I’m sure Uncle Monty has already started working, and is expecting us.”“And I’m sure that Stephano is there, too,” Klaus said, staring glumly into his cerealbowl. “We’ll never get a chance to tell Uncle Monty what we know about him.”“Yinga,” Sunny said sadly, dropping her untouched raw carrot to the floor.“If only Uncle Monty knew what we know,” Violet said, “and Stephano knew that heknew what we know. But Uncle Monty doesn’t know what we know, and Stephano knowsthat he doesn’t know what we know.”“I know,” Klaus said.“I know you know,” Violet said, “but what we don’t know is what Count Olaf—I meanStephano—is really up to. He’s after our fortune, certainly, but how can he get it if we’reunder Uncle Monty’s care?”“Maybe he’s just going to wait until you’re of age, and then steal the fortune,” Klaussaid.“Four years is a long time to wait,” Violet said. The three orphans were quiet, as eachremembered where they had been four years ago. Violet had been ten, and had worn herhair very short. She remembered that sometime around her tenth birthday she had inventeda new kind of pencil sharpener. Klaus had been about eight, and he remembered howinterested he had been in comets, reading all the astronomy books his parents had in theirlibrary. Sunny, of course, had not been born four years ago, and she sat and tried toremember what that was like. Very dark, she thought, with nothing to bite. For all threeyoungsters, four years did seem like a very long time.“Come on, come on, you are moving very slowly this morning,” Uncle Monty said,bursting into the room. His face seemed even brighter than usual, and he was holding asmall bunch of folded papers in one hand. “Stephano has only worked here one day, andhe’s already in the Reptile Room. In fact, he was up before I was—I ran into him on myway down the stairs. He’s an eager beaver. But you three— you’re moving like theHungarian Sloth Snake, whose top speed is half an inch per hour! We have lots to dotoday, and I’d like to catch the six o’clock showing of Zombies in the Snow tonight, solet’s try to hurry, hurry, hurry.”Violet looked at Uncle Monty, and realized that this might be their only opportunity totalk to him alone, without Stephano around, but he seemed so wound up they weren’t sureif he would listen to them. “Speaking of Stephano,” she said timidly, “we’d like to talk toyou about him.”Uncle Monty’s eyes widened, and he looked around him as if there were spies in theroom before leaning in to whisper to the children. “I’d like to talk to you, too,” he said. “Ihave my suspicions about Stephano, and I’d like to discuss them with you.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another in relief. “You do?” Klaus said.“Of course,” Uncle Monty said. “Last night I began to get very suspicious about thisnew assistant of mine. There’s something a little spooky about him, and I—” Uncle Montylooked around again, and began speaking even softer, so the children had to hold theirbreaths to hear him. “And I think we should discuss it outside. Shall we?” The childrennodded in agreement, and rose from the table. Leaving their dirty breakfast dishes behind,which is not a good thing to do in general but perfectly acceptable in the face of anemergency, they walked with Uncle Monty to the front entryway, past the painting of twosnakes entwined together, out the front door, and onto the lawn, as if they wanted to talk tothe snake-shaped hedges instead of to one another.“I don’t mean to be vainglorious,” Uncle Monty began, using a word which here means“braggy,” “but I really am one of the most widely respected herpetologists in the world.”Klaus blinked. It was an unexpected beginning for the conversation. “Of course youare,” he said, “but—”“And because of this, I’m sad to say,” Uncle Monty continued, as if he had not heard,“many people are jealous of me.”“I’m sure that’s true,” Violet said, puzzled.“And when people are jealous,” Uncle Monty said, shaking his head, “they will doanything. They will do crazy things. When I was getting my herpetology degree, myroommate was so envious of a new toad I had discovered that he stole and ate my onlyspecimen. I had to X-ray his stomach, and use the X-rays rather than the toad in mypresentation. And something tells me we may have a similar situation here.”What was Uncle Monty talking about?“I’m afraid I don’t quite follow you,” Klaus said, which is the polite way of saying“What are you talking about, Uncle Monty?”“Last night, after you went to bed, Stephano asked me a few too many questions aboutall the snakes and about my upcoming expedition. And do you know why?”“I think so,” Violet began, but Uncle Monty interrupted her.“It is because this man who is calling himself Stephano,” he said, “is really a memberof the Herpetological Society, and he is here to try and find the Incredibly Deadly Viper sohe can preempt my presentation. Do you three know what the word ‘preempt’ means?”“No,” Violet said, “but—”“It means that I think this Stephano is going to steal my snake,” Uncle Monty said, “andpresent it to the Herpetological Society. Because it is a new species, there’s no way I canprove I discovered it. Before we know it, the Incredibly Deadly Viper will be called theStephano Snake, or something dreadful like that. And if he’s planning that, just think whathe will do to our Peruvian expedition. Each toad we catch, each venom sample we put intoa test tube, each snake interview we record— every scrap of work we do—will fall intothe hands of this Herpetological Society spy.”“He’s not a Herpetological Society spy,” Klaus said impatiently, “he’s Count Olaf!”“I know just what you mean!” Uncle Monty said excitedly. “This sort of behavior isindeed as dastardly as that terrible man’s. That is why I’m doing this.” He raised one handand waved the folded papers in the air. “As you know,” he said, “tomorrow we are leavingfor Peru . These are our tickets for the five o’clock voyage on the Prospero, a fine ship thatwill take us across the sea to South America. There’s a ticket for me, one for Violet, onefor Klaus, one for Stephano, but not one for Sunny because we’re going to hide her in asuitcase to save money.”“Deepo!”“I’m kidding about that. But I’m not kidding about this.” Uncle Monty, his face flushedwith excitement, took one of the folded papers and began ripping it into tiny pieces. “Thisis Stephano’s ticket. He’s not going to Peru with us after all. Tomorrow morning, I’mgoing to tell him that he needs to stay here and look after my specimens instead. That waywe can run a successful expedition in peace.”“But Uncle Monty—” Klaus said.“How many times must I remind you it’s not polite to interrupt?” Uncle Montyinterrupted, shaking his head. “In any case, I know what you’re worried about. You’reworried what will happen if he stays here alone with the Incredibly Deadly Viper. Butdon’t worry. The Viper will join us on the expedition, traveling in one of our snakecarrying cases. I don’t know why you’re looking so glum, Sunny. I thought you’d behappy to have the Viper’s company. So don’t look so worried, bambini. As you can see,your Uncle Monty has the situation in hand.”When somebody is a little bit wrong—say, when a waiter puts nonfat milk in yourespresso macchiato, instead of lowfat milk—it is often quite easy to explain to them howand why they are wrong. But if somebody is surpassingly wrong—say, when a waiter bitesyour nose instead of taking your order—you can often be so surprised that you are unableto say anything at all. Paralyzed by how wrong the waiter is, your mouth would hangslightly open and your eyes would blink over and over, but you would be unable to say aword. This is what the Baudelaire children did. Uncle Monty was so wrong aboutStephano, in thinking he was a herpetological spy rather than Count Olaf, that the threesiblings could scarcely think of a way to tell him so.“Come now, my dears,” Uncle Monty said. “We’ve wasted enough of the morning ontalk. We have to—ow !” He interrupted himself with a cry of surprise and pain, and fell tothe ground.“Uncle Monty!” Klaus cried. The Baudelaire children saw that a large, shiny objectwas on top of him, and realized a moment later what the object was: it was the heavy brassreading lamp, the one standing next to the large cushioned chair in Klaus’s room.“Ow!” Uncle Monty said again, pulling the lamp off him. “That really hurt. Myshoulder may be sprained. It’s a good thing it didn’t land on my head, or it really couldhave done some damage.”“But where did it come from?” Violet asked.“It must have fallen from the window,” Uncle Monty said, pointing up to where Klaus’sroom was. “Whose room is that? Klaus, I believe it is yours. You must be more careful.You can’t dangle heavy objects out the window like that. Look what almost happened.”“But that lamp wasn’t anywhere near my window,” Klaus said. “I keep it in thealcove, so I can read in that large chair.”“Really, Klaus,” Uncle Monty said, standing up and handing him the lamp. “Do youhonestly expect me to believe that the lamp danced over to the window and leaped ontomy shoulder? Please put this back in your room, in a safe place, and we’ll say no moreabout it.”“But—” Klaus said, but his older sister interrupted him.“I’ll help you, Klaus,” Violet said. “We’ll find a place for it where it’s safe.”“Well, don’t be too long,” Uncle Monty said, rubbing his shoulder. “We’ll see you inthe Reptile Room. Come, Sunny.”Walking through the entry hall, the four parted ways at the stairs, with Uncle Monty andSunny going to the enormous door of the Reptile Room, and Violet and Klaus carrying theheavy brass lamp up to Klaus’s room.“You know very well” Klaus hissed to his sister, ”that I was not careless with thislamp.”“Of course I know that,” Violet whispered. “But there’s no use trying to explain that toUncle Monty. He thinks Stephano is a herpetological spy. You know as well as I do thatStephano was responsible for this.”“How clever of you to figure that out,” said a voice at the top of the stairs, and Violetand Klaus were so surprised they almost dropped the lamp. It was Stephano, or, if youprefer, it was Count Olaf. It was the bad guy. “But then, you’ve always been cleverchildren,” he continued. “A little too clever for my taste, but you won’t be around for long,so I’m not troubled by it.”“You’re not very clever yourself,” Klaus said fiercely. “This heavy brass lamp almosthit us, but if anything happens to my sisters or me, you’ll never get your hands on theBaudelaire fortune.”“Dear me, dear me,” Stephano said, his grimy teeth showing as he smiled. “If I wantedto harm you, orphan, your blood would already be pouring down these stairs like awaterfall. No, I’m not going to harm a hair on any Baudelaire head—not here in thishouse. You needn’t be afraid of me, little ones, until we find ourselves in a location wherecrimes are more difficult to trace.”“And where would that be?” Violet asked. “We plan to stay right here until we growup.”“Really?” Stephano said, in that sneaky, sneaky voice. “Why, I had the impression wewere leaving the country tomorrow.”“Uncle Monty tore up your ticket,” Klaus replied triumphantly. “He was suspicious ofyou, so he changed his plans and now you’re not going with us.”Stephano’s smile turned into a scowl, and his stained teeth seemed to grow bigger. Hiseyes grew so shiny that it hurt Violet and Klaus to look at them. “I wouldn’t rely on that,”he said, in a terrible, terrible voice. “Even the best plans can change if there’s anaccident.” He pointed one spiky finger at the brass reading lamp. “And accidents happenall the time.”C H A P T E RSixBad circumstances have a way of ruining things that would otherwise be pleasant. Soit was with the Baudelaire orphans and the movie Zombies in the Snow. All afternoon, thethree children had sat and worried in the Reptile Room, under the mocking stare ofStephano and the oblivious— the word “oblivious” here means “not aware that Stephanowas really Count Olaf and thus being in a great deal of danger”—chatter of Uncle Monty.So by the time it was evening, the siblings were in no mood for cinematic entertainment.Uncle Monty’s jeep was really too small to hold him, Stephano and the three orphans, soKlaus and Violet shared a seat, and poor Sunny had to sit on Stephano’s filthy lap, but theBaudelaires were too preoccupied to even notice their discomfort.The children sat all in a row at the multiplex, with Uncle Monty to one side, whileStephano sat in the middle and hogged the popcorn. But the children were too anxious toeat any snacks, and too busy trying to figure out what Stephano planned to do to enjoyZombies in the Snow, which was a fine film. When the zombies first rose out of thesnowbanks surrounding the tiny Alpine fishing village, Violet tried to imagine a way inwhich Stephano could get aboard the Prospero without a ticket and accompany them toPeru . When the town fathers constructed a barrier of sturdy oak, only to have the zombieschomp their way through it, Klaus was concerned with exactly what Stephano had meantwhen he spoke about accidents. And when Gerta, the little milkmaid, made friends withthe zombies and asked them to please stop eating the villagers, Sunny, who was of coursescarcely old enough to comprehend the orphans’situation, tried to think up a way to defeatStephano’s plans, whatever they were. In the final scene of the movie, the zombies andvillagers celebrated May Day together, but the three Baudelaire orphans were too nervousand afraid to enjoy themselves one bit. On the way home, Uncle Monty tried to talk to thesilent, worried children sitting in the back, but they hardly said a word in reply andeventually he fell silent.When the jeep pulled up to the snake-shaped hedges, the Baudelaire children dashedout and ran to the front door without even saying good night to their puzzled guardian.With heavy hearts they climbed the stairs to their bedrooms, but when they reached theirdoors they could not bear to part.“Could we all spend the night in the same room?” Klaus asked Violet timidly. “Lastnight I felt as if I were in a jail cell, worrying all by myself.”“Me too,” Violet admitted. “Since we’re not going to sleep, we might as well not sleepin the same place.”“Tikko,” Sunny agreed, and followed her siblings into Violet’s room. Violet lookedaround the bedroom and remembered how excited she had been to move into it just a shortwhile ago. Now, the enormous window with the view of the snake-shaped hedges seemeddepressing rather than inspiring, and the blank pages tacked to her wall, rather than beingconvenient, seemed only to remind her of how anxious she was.“I see you haven’t worked much on your inventions,” Klaus said gently. “I haven’t beenreading at all. When Count Olaf is around, it sure puts a damper on the imagination.”“Not always,” Violet pointed out. “When we lived with him, you read all about nuptiallaw to find out about his plan, and I invented a grappling hook to put a stop to it.”“In this situation, though,” Klaus said glumly, “we don’t even know what Count Olaf isup to. How can we formulate a plan if we don’t know his plan?”“Well, let’s try to hash this out,” Violet said, using an expression which here means“talk about something at length until we completely understand it.” “Count Olaf, callinghimself Stephano, has come to this house in disguise and is obviously after the Baudelairefortune.”“And,” Klaus continued, “once he gets his hands on it, he plans to kill us.”“Tadu,” Sunny murmured solemnly, which probably meant something along the lines of“It’s a loathsome situation in which we find ourselves.”“However,” Violet said, “if he harms us, there’s no way he can get to our fortune.That’s why he tried to marry me last time.”“Thank God that didn’t work,” Klaus said, shivering. “Then Count Olaf would be mybrother-in-law. But this time he’s not planning to marry you. He said something about anaccident.”“And about heading to a location where crimes are more difficult to trace,” Violet said,remembering his words. “That must mean Peru . But Stephano isn’t going to Peru . UncleMonty tore up his ticket.”“Doog!” Sunny shrieked, in a generic cry of frustration, and pounded her little fist onthe floor. The word “generic” here means “when one is unable to think of anything else tosay,” and Sunny was not alone in this. Violet and Klaus were of course too old to saythings like “Doog!” but they wished they weren’t. They wished they could figure outCount Olaf’s plan. They wished their situation didn’t seem as mysterious and hopeless asit did, and they wished they were young enough to simply shriek “Doog!” and pound theirfists on the floor. And most of all, of course, they wished that their parents were alive andthat the Baudelaires were all safe in the home where they had been born.And as fervently as the Baudelaire orphans wished their circumstances were different, Iwish that I could somehow change the circumstances of this story for you. Even as I sithere, safe as can be and so very far from Count Olaf, I can scarcely bear to write anotherword. Perhaps it would be best if you shut this book right now and never read the rest ofthis horrifying story. You can imagine, if you wish, that an hour later, the Baudelaireorphans suddenly figured out what Stephano was up to and were able to save UncleMonty’s life. You can picture the police arriving with all their flashing lights and sirens,and dragging Stephano away to jail for the rest of his life. You can pretend, even though itis not so, that the Baudelaires are living happily with Uncle Monty to this day. Or best ofall, you can conjure up the illusion that the Baudelaire parents have not been killed, andthat the terrible fire and Count Olaf and Uncle Monty and all the other unfortunate eventsare nothing more than a dream, a figment of the imagination.But this story is not a happy one, and I am not happy to tell you that the Baudelaireorphans sat dumbly in Violet’s room—the word “dumbly” here means “withoutspeaking,” rather than “in a stupid way”—for the rest of the night. Had someone peepedthrough the bedroom window as the morning sun rose, they would have seen the threechildren huddled together on the bed, their eyes wide open and dark with worry. Butnobody peeped through the window. Somebody knocked on the door, four loud knocks asif something were being nailed shut.The children blinked and looked at one another. “Who is it?” Klaus called out, his voicecrackly from being silent so long.Instead of an answer, whoever it was simply turned the knob and the door swungslowly open. There stood Stephano, with his clothes all rumpled and his eyes shiningbrighter than they ever had before.“Good morning,” he said. “It’s time to leave for Peru . There is just room for threeorphans and myself in the jeep, so get a move on.”“We told you yesterday that you weren’t going,” Violet said. She hoped her voicesounded braver than she felt.“It is your Uncle Monty who isn’t going,” Stephano said, and raised the part of hisforehead where his eyebrow should have been.“Don’t be ridiculous,” Klaus said. “Uncle Monty wouldn’t miss this expedition for theworld.”“Ask him,” Stephano said, and the Baudelaires saw a familiar expression on his face.His mouth scarcely moved, but his eyes were shining as if he’d just told a joke. “Whydon’t you ask him? He’s down in the Reptile Room.”“We will ask him,” Violet said. “Uncle Monty has no intention of letting you take us toPeru alone.” She rose from the bed, took the hands of her siblings, and walked quicklypast Stephano who was smirking in the doorway. “We will ask him,” Violet said again,and Stephano gave a little bow as the children walked out of the room.The hallway was strangely quiet, and blank as the eyes of a skull. “Uncle Monty?”Violet called, at the end of the hallway. Nobody answered.Aside from a few creaks on the steps, the whole house was eerily quiet, as if it had beendeserted for many years. “Uncle Monty?” Klaus called, at the bottom of the stairs. Theyheard nothing.Standing on tiptoe, Violet opened the enormous door of the Reptile Room and for amoment, the orphans stared into the room as if hypnotized, entranced by the odd blue lightwhich the sunrise made as it shone through the glass ceiling and walls. In the dim glow,they could see only silhouettes of the various reptiles as they moved around in their cages,or slept, curled into shapeless dark masses.Their footsteps echoing off the glimmering walls, the three siblings walked through theReptile Room, toward the far end, where Uncle Monty’s library lay waiting for them.Even though the dark room felt mysterious and strange, it was a comforting mystery, and asafe strangeness. They remembered Uncle Monty’s promise: that if they took time to learnthe facts, no harm would come to them here in the Reptile Room. However, you and Iremember that Uncle Monty’s promise was laden with dramatic irony, and now, here in theearly-morning gloom of the Reptile Room, that irony was going to come to fruition, aphrase which here means “the Baudelaires were finally to learn of it.” For just as theyreached the books, the three siblings could see a large, shadowy mass huddled in the farcorner. Nervously, Klaus switched on one of the reading lamps to get a better look.The shadowy mass was Uncle Monty. His mouth was slightly agape, as if he weresurprised, and his eyes were wide open, but he didn’t appear to see them. His face, usuallyso rosy, was very, very pale, and under his left eye were two small holes, right in a line,the sort of mark made by the two fangs of a snake.“Divo soom?” Sunny asked, and tugged at his pants leg. Uncle Monty did not move. Ashe had promised, no harm had come to the Baudelaire orphans in the Reptile Room, butgreat harm had come to Uncle Monty.C H A P T E RSeven“ My , my, my, my, my,” said a voice from behind them, and the Baudelaire orphansturned to find Stephano standing there, the black suitcase with the shiny silver padlock inhis hands and a look of brummagem surprise on his face. “Brummagem” is such a rareword for “fake” that even Klaus didn’t know what it meant, but the children did not haveto be told that Stephano was pretending to be surprised. “What a terrible accident hashappened here. Snakebite. Whoever discovers this will be most upset.”“You—” Violet began to say, but her throat fluttered, as if the fact of Uncle Monty’sdeath were food that tasted terrible. “You—” she said again.Stephano took no notice. “Of course, after they discover that Dr. Montgomery is dead,they’ll wonder what became of those repulsive orphans he had lying around the house. Butthey’ll be long gone. Speaking of which, it’s time to leave. The Prospero sails at fiveo’clock from Hazy Harbor and I’d like to be the first passenger aboard. That way I’ll havetime for a bottle of wine before lunch.”“How could you?” Klaus whispered hoarsely. He couldn’t take his eyes off UncleMonty’s pale, pale face. “How could you do this? How could you murder him?”“Why, Klaus, I’m surprised,” Stephano said, and walked over to Uncle Monty’s body.“A smarty-pants boy like you should be able to figure out that your chubby old uncle diedfrom snakebite, not from murder. Look at those teeth marks. Look at his pale, pale face.Look at these staring eyes.”“Stop it!” Violet said. “Don’t talk like that!”“You’re right!” Stephano said. “There’s no time for chitchat! We have a ship to catch!Let’s move!”“We’re not going anywhere with you,” Klaus said. His face was pinched with the effortof focusing on their predicament rather than going to pieces. “We will stay here until thepolice come.”“And how do you suppose the police will know to come?” Stephano said.“We will call them,” Klaus said, in what he hoped was a firm tone of voice, andbegan to walk toward the door.Stephano dropped his suitcase, the shiny silver padlock making a clattering sound as ithit the marble floor. He took a few steps and blocked Klaus’s way, his eyes wide and redwith fury. “I am so tired,” Stephano snarled, “of having to explain everything to you.You’re supposed to be so very smart, and yet you always seem to forget about this!” Hereached into his pocket and pulled out the jagged knife. “This is my knife. It is very sharpand very eager to hurt you— almost as eager as I am. If you don’t do what I say, you willsuffer bodily harm. Is that clear enough for you? Now, get in the damn jeep.”It is, as you know, very, very rude and usually unnecessary to use profanity, but theBaudelaire orphans were too terrified to point this out to Stephano. Taking a last look attheir poor Uncle Monty, the three children followed Stephano to the door of the ReptileRoom to get in the damn jeep. To add insult to injury—a phrase which here means“forcing somebody to do an unpleasant task when they’re already very upset”— Stephanoforced Violet to carry his suitcase out of the house, but she was too lost in her ownthoughts to care. She was remembering the last conversation she and her siblings had hadwith Uncle Monty, and thinking with a cold rush of shame that it hadn’t really been aconversation at all. You will recall, of course, that on the ride home from seeing Zombiesin the Snow, the children had been so worried about Stephano that they hadn’t said a wordto Uncle Monty, and that when the jeep had arrived at the house, the Baudelaire orphanshad dashed upstairs to hash out the situation, without even saying good night to the manwho now lay dead under a sheet in the Reptile Room. As the youngsters reached the jeep,Violet tried to remember if they had even thanked him for taking them to the movies, butthe night was all a blur. She thought that she, Klaus, and Sunny had probably said “Thankyou, Uncle Monty,” when they were standing together at the ticket booth, but she couldn’tbe sure. Stephano opened the door of the jeep and gestured with the knife, ushering Klausand Sunny into the tiny backseat and Violet, the black suitcase heavy on her lap, into thefront seat beside him. The orphans had a brief hope that the engine would not start whenStephano turned the key in the ignition, but this was a futile hope. Uncle Monty took goodcare of his jeep, and it started right up.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked behind them as Stephano began to drive alongside thesnake-shaped hedges. At the sight of the Reptile Room, which Uncle Monty had filled socarefully with his specimens and in which he was now a sort of specimen himself, theweight of the Baudelaires’ despair was too much for them and they quietly began to cry. Itis a curious thing, the death of a loved one. We all know that our time in this world islimited, and that eventually all of us will end up underneath some sheet, never to wake up.And yet it is always a surprise when it happens to someone we know. It is like walking upthe stairs to your bedroom in the dark, and thinking there is one more stair than there is.Your foot falls down, through the air, and there is a sickly moment of dark surprise as youtry and readjust the way you thought of things. The Baudelaire orphans were crying notonly for their Uncle Monty, but for their own parents, and this dark and curious feeling offalling that accompanies any great loss.What was to happen to them? Stephano had heartlessly slaughtered the man who wassupposed to be watching over the Baudelaires, and now they were all alone. What wouldStephano do to them? He was supposed to be left behind when they went to Peru , andnow he would be leaving with them on the Prospero. And what terrible things wouldhappen in Peru ? Would anybody rescue them there? Would Stephano get his hands on thefortune? And what would happen to the three children afterward? These are frighteningquestions, and if you are thinking about such matters, they require your full attention, andthe orphans were so immersed in thinking about them that they didn’t realize thatStephano was about to collide with another automobile until the moment of impact.There was a horrible tearing sound of metal and glass as a black car crashed into UncleMonty’s jeep, throwing the children to the floor with a jarring thump that felt as though itleft the Baudelaire stomachs up on the seat. The black suitcase lurched into Violet’sshoulder and then forward into the windshield, which immediately cracked in a dozenplaces so it looked like a spiderweb. Stephano gave a cry of surprise and turned thesteering wheel this way and that, but the two vehicles were locked together and, withanother thump, veered off the road into a small pile of mud. It is a rare occurrence when acar accident can be called a stroke of good fortune, but that was most certainly the casehere. With the snake-shaped hedges still clearly visible behind them, the Baudelaires’journey toward Hazy Harbor had stopped.Stephano gave another sharp cry, this one of rage. “Blasted furnaces of hell!” heshouted, as Violet rubbed her shoulder to make sure she wasn’t seriously hurt. Klaus andSunny got up cautiously from the jeep floor and looked out the cracked windshield. Thereappeared to be only one person in the other car, but it was hard to tell, as that vehicle hadclearly suffered much more damage than Monty’s jeep. Its entire front had pleated itselftogether, like an accordion, and one hubcap was spinning noisily on the pavement ofLousy Lane , making blurry circles as if it were a giant coin somebody had dropped. Thedriver was dressed in gray and making a rough hacking sound as he opened the crumpleddoor of the car and struggled his way out. He made the hacking sound again, and thenreached into a pocket of his suit and pulled out a white handkerchief.“It’s Mr. Poe!” Klaus cried.It was Mr. Poe, coughing away as usual, and the children were so delighted to see himthat they found themselves smiling despite their horrible circumstances. “Mr. Poe! Mr.Poe!” Violet cried, reaching around Stephano’s suitcase to open the passenger door.Stephano reached out an arm and grabbed her sore shoulder, turning his head slowly sothat each child saw his shiny eyes. “This changes nothing!” he hissed at them. “This is abit of luck for you, but it is your last. The three of you will be back in this car with me andheading toward Hazy Harbor in time to catch the Prospero, I promise you.”“We’ll see about that,” Violet replied, opening the door and sliding out from beneaththe suitcase. Klaus opened his door and followed her, carrying Sunny. “Mr. Poe! Mr. Poe!”“Violet?” Mr. Poe asked. “Violet Baudelaire? Is that you?”“Yes, Mr. Poe,” Violet said. “It’s all of us, and we’re so grateful you ran into us likethis.”“Well, I wouldn’t say that,” Mr. Poe said. “This was clearly the other driver’s fault. Youran into me.”“How dare you!” Stephano shouted, and got out of the car himself, wrinkling his noseat the smell of horseradish that filled the air. He stomped over to where Mr. Poe wasstanding, but halfway there the children saw his face change from one of pure rage to oneof brummagem confusion and sadness. “I’m sorry,” he said, in a high, fluttery voice. “Thiswhole thing is my fault. I’m so distressed by what has happened that I wasn’t paying anyattention to the rules of the road. I hope you’re not hurt, Mr. Foe.”“It’s Poe” Mr. Poe said. “My name is Poe. I’m not hurt. Luckily, it looks like nobodywas hurt. I wish the same could be said for my car. But who are you and what are youdoing with the Baudelaire children?”“I’ll tell you who he is,” Klaus said. “He’s—”“Please, Klaus,” Mr. Poe admonished a word which here means “reprimanded Klauseven though he was interrupting for a very good reason.” “It is not polite to interrupt.”“My name is Stephano,” Stephano said, shaking Mr. Poe’s hand. “I am—I mean I was— Dr. Montgomery’s assistant.”“What do you mean was?” Mr. Poe asked sternly. “Were you fired?”“No. Dr. Montgomery—oh, excuse me—” Stephano turned away and pretended to dabat his eyes as if he were too sad to continue. Facing away from Mr. Poe, he gave theorphans a big wink before continuing. “I’m sorry to tell you there’s been a horribleaccident, Mr. Doe. Dr. Montgomery is dead.”“Poe,” Mr. Poe said. “He’s dead? That’s terrible. What has happened?”“I don’t know,” Stephano said. “It looks like snakebite to me, but I don’t know anythingabout snakes. That’s why I was going into town, to get a doctor. The children seemed tooupset to be left alone.”“He’s not taking us to get a doctor!” Klaus shouted. “He’s taking us to Peru !”“You see what I mean?” Stephano said to Mr. Poe, patting Klaus’s head. “The childrenare obviously very distressed. Dr. Montgomery was going to take them to Peru today.”“Yes, I know,” Mr. Poe said. “That’s why I hurried over here this morning, to finallybring them their luggage. Klaus, I know you’re confused and upset over this accident, butplease try to understand that if Dr. Montgomery is really dead, the expedition is canceled.”“But Mr. Poe—” Klaus said indignantly.“Please,” Mr. Poe said. “This is a matter for adults to discuss, Klaus. Clearly, a doctorneeds to be called.”“Well, why don’t you drive on up to the house,” Stephano said, “and I’ll take thechildren and find a doctor.”“José!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “No way!”“Why don’t we all go to the house,” Mr. Poe said, “and call for a doctor?”Stephano blinked, and for a second his face grew angry again before he was able tocalm himself and answer smoothly. “Of course,” he said. “I should have called earlier.Obviously I’m not thinking as clearly as you. Here, children, get back in the jeep, and Mr.Poe will follow us.”“We’re not getting back in that car with you,” Klaus said firmly.“Please, Klaus,” Mr. Poe said. “Try to understand. There’s been a serious accident. Allother discussions will have to be put aside. The only trouble is, I’m not sure my car willstart. It’s very smashed up.”“Try the ignition,” Stephano said. Mr. Poe nodded, and walked back to his car. He sat inthe driver’s seat and turned the key. The engine made a rough, wet noise—it sounded quitea bit like Mr. Poe’s coughs—but it did not start.“I’m afraid the engine is quite dead,” Mr. Poe called out.“And before long,” Stephano muttered to the children, “you will be too.”“I’m sorry,” Mr. Poe said. “I couldn’t hear you.”Stephano smiled. “I said, that’s too bad. Well, why don’t I take the orphans back to thehouse, and you walk behind us? There isn’t room for everyone.”Mr. Poe frowned. “But the children’s suitcases are here. I don’t want to leave themunattended. Why don’t we put the luggage into your car, and the children and I will walkback to the house?”Stephano frowned. “Well, one of the children should ride with me, so I won’t get lost.”Mr. Poe smiled. “But you can see the house from here. You won’t get lost.”“Stephano doesn’t want us to be alone with you,” Violet said, finally speaking up. Shehad been waiting for the proper moment to make her case. “He’s afraid that we’ll tell youwho he really is, and what he’s really up to.”“What’s she talking about?” Mr. Poe asked Stephano.“I have no idea, Mr. Toe,” Stephano replied, shaking his head and looking at Violetfiercely .Violet took a deep breath. “This man is not Stephano,” she said, pointing at him. “He’sCount Olaf, and he’s here to take us away.”“Who am I?” Stephano asked. “What am I doing?”Mr. Poe looked Stephano up and down, and then shook his head. “Forgive thechildren,” he said. “They are very upset. Count Olaf is a terrible man who tried to stealtheir money, and the youngsters are very frightened of him.”“Do I look like this Count Olaf?” Stephano asked, his eyes shining.“No, you don’t,” Mr. Poe said. “Count Olaf had one long eyebrow, and a cleanshavenface. You have a beard, and if you don’t mind my saying so, no eyebrows at all.”“He shaved his eyebrow,” Violet said, “and grew a beard. Anyone can see that.”“And he has the tattoo!” Klaus cried. “The eye tattoo, on his ankle! Look at the tattoo!”Mr. Poe looked at Stephano, and shrugged apologetically. “I’m sorry to ask you this,”he said, “but the children seem so upset, and before we discuss anything further I’d like toset their minds at ease. Would you mind showing me your ankle?”“I’d be happy to,” Stephano said, giving the children a toothy smile. “Right or left?”Klaus closed his eyes and thought for a second. “Left,” he said.Stephano placed his left foot on the bumper of Uncle Monty’s jeep. Looking at theBaudelaire orphans with his shiny, shiny eyes, he began to raise the leg of his stainedstriped pants. Violet, Klaus, Sunny, and Mr. Poe all kept their eyes on Stephano’s ankle.The pant leg went up, like a curtain rising to begin a play. But there was no tattoo of aneye to be seen. The Baudelaire orphans stared at a patch of smooth skin, as blank and paleas poor Uncle Monty’s face.C H A P T E REightWhile the jeep sputtered ahead of them, the Baudelaire orphans trudged back towardUncle Monty’s house, the scent of horseradish in their nostrils and a feeling of frustrationin their hearts. It is very unnerving to be proven wrong, particularly when you are reallyright and the person who is really wrong is the one who is proving you wrong and provinghimself, wrongly, right. Right?“I don’t know how he got rid of his tattoo,” Klaus said stubbornly to Mr. Poe, who wascoughing into his handkerchief, “but that’s definitely Count Olaf.”“Klaus,” Mr. Poe said, when he had stopped coughing, “this is getting very tiresome,going over this again and again. We have just seen Stephano’s unblemished ankle.‘Unblemished’ means—”A Series of Unfortunate Events 2- TheReptile Room“We know what ‘unblemished’ means,” Klaus said, watching Stephano get out of UncleMonty’s jeep and walk quickly into the house. “‘Without tattoos.’ But it is Count Olaf.Why can’t you see it?”“All I can see,” Mr. Poe said, “is what’s in front of me. I see a man with no eyebrows, abeard, and no tattoo, and that’s not Count Olaf. Anyway, even if by some chance thisStephano wishes you harm, you have nothing to fear. It is quite shocking that Dr.Montgomery has died, but we’re not simply going to hand over you and your fortune tohis assistant. Why, this man can’t even remember my name!”Klaus looked at his siblings and sighed. It would be easier, they realized, to argue withthe snake-shaped hedge than with Mr. Poe when he had made up his mind. Violet wasabout to try reasoning with him one more time when a horn honked behind them. TheBaudelaires and Mr. Poe got out of the way of the approaching automobile, a small graycar with a very skinny driver. The car stopped in front of the house and the skinny persongot out, a tall man in a white coat.“May we help you?” Mr. Poe called, as he and the children approached.“I am Dr. Lucafont,” the tall man said, pointing to himself with a big, solid hand. “Ireceived a call that there’s been a terrible accident involving a snake.”“You’re here already?” Mr. Poe asked. “But Stephano has scarcely had time to call, letalone for you to drive here.”“I believe that speed is of the essence in an emergency, don’t you?” Dr. Lucafont said.“If an autopsy is to be performed, it should be done immediately.”“Of course, of course,” Mr. Poe said quickly. “I was just surprised.”“Where is the body?” Dr. Lucafont asked, walking toward the door.“Stephano can tell you,” Mr. Poe said, opening the door of the house. Stephano waswaiting in the entryway, holding a coffeepot.“I’m going to make some coffee,” he said. “Who wants some?”“I’ll have a cup,” Dr. Lucafont said. “Nothing like a hearty cup of coffee before startingthe day’s work.”Mr. Poe frowned. “Shouldn’t you take a look at Dr. Montgomery first?”“Yes, Dr. Lucafont,” Stephano said. “Time is of the essence in an emergency, don’t youthink?”“Yes, yes, I suppose you’re right,” Dr. Lucafont said.“Poor Dr. Montgomery is in the Reptile Room,” Stephano said, gesturing to where theBaudelaires’ guardian still lay. “Please do a thorough examination, and then you may havesome coffee.”“You’re the boss,” Dr. Lucafont said, opening the door of the Reptile Room with anoddly stiff hand. Stephano led Mr. Poe into the kitchen, and the Baudelaires glumlyfollowed. When one feels useless and unable to help, one can use the expression “feelinglike a fifth wheel,” because if something has four wheels, such as a wagon or a car, thereis no real need for a fifth. As Stephano brewed coffee for the adults, the three children satdown at the kitchen table where they had first had coconut cake with Uncle Monty just ashort time ago, and Violet, Klaus, and Sunny felt like fifth, sixth, and seventh wheels on acar that was going the wrong direction—toward Hazy Harbor, and the departing Prospero.“When I spoke to Dr. Lucafont on the phone,” Stephano said, “I told him about theaccident with your car. When he is done with his medical examination, he will drive youinto town to get a mechanic and I will stay here with the orphans.”“No,” Klaus said firmly. “We are not staying alone with him for an instant.”Mr. Poe smiled as Stephano poured him a cup of coffee, and looked sternly at Klaus.“Klaus, I realize you are very upset, but it is inexcusable for you to keep treating Stephanoso rudely. Please apologize to him at once.”“No!” Klaus cried.“That’s quite all right, Mr. Yoe,” Stephano said soothingly. “The children are upset overDr. Montgomery’s murder, so I don’t expect them to be on their best behavior.”“Murder?” Violet said. She turned to Stephano and tried to look as if she were merelypolitely curious, instead of enraged. “Why did you say murder, Stephano?”Stephano’s face darkened, and his hands clenched at his sides. It looked like there wasnothing he wanted to do more than scratch out Violet’s eyes. “I misspoke,” he said finally.“Of course he did,” Mr. Poe said, sipping from his cup. “But the children can come withDr. Lucafont and me if they feel more comfortable that way.”“I’m not sure they will fit,” Stephano said, his eyes shining. “It’s a very small car. But ifthe orphans would rather, they could come with me in the jeep and we could follow youand Dr. Lucafont to the mechanic.”The three orphans looked at one another and thought hard. Their situation seemed like agame, although this game had desperately high stakes. The object of the game was not toend up alone with Stephano, for when they did, he would whisk them away on theProspero. What would happen then, when they were alone in Peru with such a greedy anddespicable person, they did not want to think about. What they had to think about wasstopping it from happening. It seemed incredible that their very lives hinged on acarpooling conversation, but in life it is often the tiny details that end up being the mostimportant.“Why don’t we ride with Dr. Lucafont,” Violet said carefully, “and Mr. Poe can ridewith Stephano?”“Whatever for?” Mr. Poe asked.“I’ve always wanted to see the inside of a doctor’s automobile,” Violet said, knowingthat this was a fairly lame invention.“Oh yes, me too,” Klaus said. “Please, can’t we ride with Dr. Lucafont?”“I’m afraid not,” Dr. Lucafont said from the doorway, surprising everyone. “Not allthree of you children, anyway. I have placed Dr. Montgomery’s body in my car, whichonly leaves room for two more passengers.”“Have you completed your examination already?” Mr. Poe asked.“The preliminary one, yes,” Dr. Lucafont said. “I will have to take the body for somefurther tests, but my autopsy shows that the doctor died of snakebite. Is there any coffeeleft for me?”“Of course,” Stephano answered, and poured him a cup.“How can you be sure?” Violet asked the doctor.“What do you mean?” Dr. Lucafont said quizzically. “I can be sure there’s coffee leftbecause I see it right here.”“What I think Violet means,” Mr. Poe said, “is how can you be sure that Dr.Montgomery died of snakebite?”“In his veins, I found the venom of the Mamba du Mal, one of the world’s mostpoisonous snakes.”“Does this mean that there’s a poisonous snake loose in this house?” Mr. Poe asked.“No, no,” Dr. Lucafont said. “The Mamba du Mal is safe in its cage. It must have gottenout, bitten Dr. Montgomery, and locked itself up again.”“What?” Violet asked. “That’s a ridiculous theory. A snake cannot operate a lock byitself.”“Perhaps other snakes helped it,” Dr. Lucafont said calmly, sipping his coffee. “Is thereanything here to eat? I had to rush over here without my breakfast.”“Your story does seem a little odd,” Mr. Poe said. He looked questioningly at Dr.Lucafont, who was opening a cupboard and peering inside.“Terrible accidents, I have found, are often odd,” he replied.“It can’t have been an accident,” Violet said. “Uncle Monty is—” She stopped. “UncleMonty was one of the world’s most respected herpetologists. He never would have kept apoisonous snake in a cage it could open itself.”“If it wasn’t an accident,” Dr. Lucafont said, “then someone would have had to do thison purpose. Obviously, you three children didn’t kill him, and the only other person in thehouse was Stephano.”“And I,” Stephano added quickly, “hardly know anything about snakes. I’ve only beenworking here for two days and scarcely had time to learn anything.”“It certainly appears to be an accident,” Mr. Poe said. “I’m sorry, children. Dr.Montgomery seemed like an appropriate guardian for you.”“He was more than that,” Violet said quietly. “He was much, much more than anappropriate guardian.”“That’s Uncle Monty’s food!” Klaus cried out suddenly, his face contorted in anger. Hepointed at Dr. Lucafont, who had taken a can out of the cupboard. “Stop eating his food!”“I was only going to have a few peaches,” Dr. Lucafont said. With one of his oddlysolid hands, he held up a can of peaches Uncle Monty had bought only yesterday.“Please,” Mr. Poe said gently to Dr. Lucafont. “The children are very upset. I’m sureyou can understand that. Violet, Klaus, Sunny, why don’t you excuse yourselves for a littlewhile? We have much to discuss, and you are obviously too overwrought to participate.Now, Dr. Lucafont, let’s try and figure this out. You have room for three passengers,including Dr. Montgomery’s body. And you, Stephano, have room for three passengers aswell.”“So it’s very simple,” Stephano said. “You and the corpse will go in Dr. Lucafont’s car,and I will drive behind you with the children.”“No,” Klaus said firmly.“Baudelaires,” Mr. Poe said, just as firmly, “will you three please excuse yourselves?”“Afoop!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “No.”“Of course we will,” Violet said, giving Klaus and Sunny a significant look, and takingher siblings’ hands, she half-led them, half-dragged them out of the kitchen. Klaus andSunny looked up at their older sister, and saw that something about her had changed. Herface looked more determined than grief-stricken, and she walked quickly, as if she werelate for something.You will remember, of course, that even years later, Klaus would lie awake in bed,filled with regret that he didn’t call out to the driver of the taxicab who had broughtStephano into their lives once more. But in this respect Violet was luckier than her brother.For unlike Klaus, who was so surprised when he first recognized Stephano that themoment to act passed him by, Violet realized, as she heard the adults drone on and on, thatthe time to act was now. I cannot say that Violet, years later, slept easily when she lookedback on her life—there were too many miserable times for any of the Baudelaires to bepeaceful sleepers—but she was always a bit proud of herself that she realized she and hersiblings should in fact excuse themselves from the kitchen and move to a more helpfullocation.“What are we doing?” Klaus asked. “Where are we going?” Sunny, too, lookedquestioningly at her sister, but Violet merely shook her head in answer, and walked faster,toward the door of the Reptile Room.C H A P T E RNineWhen Violet opened the enormous door of the Reptile Room, the reptiles were stillthere in their cages, the books were still on their shelves, and the morning sun was stillstreaming through the glass walls, but the place simply wasn’t the same. Even though Dr.Lucafont had removed Uncle Monty’s body, the Reptile Room was not as inviting as itused to be, and probably never would be. What happens in a certain place can stain yourfeelings for that location, just as ink can stain a white sheet. You can wash it, and wash it,and still never forget what has transpired, a word which here means “happened and madeeverybody sad.”“I don’t want to go in,” Klaus said. “Uncle Monty died in here.”“I know we don’t want to be here,” Violet said, “but we have work to do.”“Work?” Klaus asked. “What work?”Violet gritted her teeth. “We have work to do,” she said, “that Mr. Poe should be doing,but as usual, he is well intentioned but of no real help.” Klaus and Sunny sighed as shespoke out loud a sentiment all three siblings had never said, but always felt, since Mr. Poehad taken over their affairs. “Mr. Poe doesn’t believe that Stephano and Count Olaf are thesame person. And he believes that Uncle Monty’s death was an accident. We have toprove him wrong on both counts.”“But Stephano doesn’t have the tattoo,” Klaus pointed out. “And Dr. Lucafont foundthe venom of the Mamba du Mal in Monty’s veins.”“I know, I know,” Violet said impatiently. “The three of us know the truth, but in orderto convince the adults, we have to find evidence and proof of Stephano’s plan.”“If only we’d found evidence and proof earlier,” Klaus said glumly. “Then maybe wecould have saved Uncle Monty’s life.”“We’ll never know about that,” Violet said quietly. She looked around at the ReptileRoom, which Monty had worked on his whole life. “But if we put Stephano behind barsfor his murder, we’ll at least be able to prevent him from harming anyone else.”“Including us,” Klaus pointed out.“Including us,” Violet agreed. “Now, Klaus, find all of Uncle Monty’s books that mightcontain information about the Mamba du Mal. Let me know when you find anything.”“But all that research could take days,” Klaus said, looking at Monty’s considerablelibrary.“Well, we don’t have days,” Violet said firmly. “We don’t even have hours. At fiveo’clock, the Prospero leaves Hazy Harbor , and Stephano is going to do everything he canto make sure we’re on that ship. And if we end up alone in Peru with him—”“All right, all right,” Klaus said. “Let’s get started. Here, you take this book.”“I’m not taking any book,” Violet said. “While you’re in the library, I’m going up toStephano’s room to see if I can find any clues.”“Alone?” Klaus asked. “In his room?”It’ll be perfectly safe,“ Violet said, although she knew nothing of the kind. ”Getcracking with the books, Klaus. Sunny, watch the door and bite anybody who tries to getin.”“Ackroid!” Sunny said, which probably meant something like “Roger!”Violet left, and true to her word, Sunny sat near the door with her teeth bared. Klauswalked to the far end of the room where the library was, carefully avoiding the aisle wherethe poisonous snakes were kept. He didn’t even want to look at the Mamba du Mal or anyother deadly reptile. Even though Klaus knew that Uncle Monty’s death was the fault ofStephano and not really of the snake, he could not bear to look at the reptile who had putan end to the happy times he and his sisters had enjoyed. Klaus sighed, and opened abook, and as at so many other times when the middle Baudelaire child did not want tothink about his circumstances, he began to read.It is now necessary for me to use the rather hackneyed phrase “meanwhile, back at theranch.” The word “hackneyed” here means “used by so, so many writers that by the timeLemony Snicket uses it, it is a tiresome cliché.” “Meanwhile, back at the ranch” is aphrase used to link what is going on in one part of the story to what is going on in anotherpart of the story, and it has nothing to do with cows or with horses or with any people whowork in rural areas where ranches are, or even with ranch dressing, which is creamy andput on salads. Here, the phrase “meanwhile, back at the ranch” refers to what Violet wasdoing while Klaus and Sunny were in the Reptile Room. For as Klaus began his researchin Uncle Monty’s library, and Sunny guarded the door with her sharp teeth, Violet was upto something I am sure will be of interest to you.Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Violet went to listen at the kitchen door, trying to catchwhat the adults were saying. As I’m sure you know, the key to good eavesdropping is notgetting caught, and Violet moved as quietly as she could, trying not to step on any creakyparts of the floor. When she reached the door of the kitchen, she took her hair ribbon outof her pocket and dropped it on the floor, so if anyone opened the door she could claimthat she was kneeling down to pick it up, rather than to eavesdrop. This was a trick shehad learned when she was very small, when she would listen at her parents’ bedroom doorto hear what they might be planning for her birthday, and like all good tricks, it stillworked.“But Mr. Poe, if Stephano rides with me in my car, and you drive Dr. Montgomery’sjeep,” Dr. Lucafont was saying, “then how will you know the way?”“I see your point,” Mr. Poe said. “But I don’t think Sunny will be willing to sit on Dr.Montgomery’s lap, if he’s dead. We’ll have to work out another way.”“I’ve got it,” Stephano said. “I will drive the children in Dr. Lucafont’s car, and Dr.Lucafont can go with you and Dr. Montgomery in Dr. Montgomery’s jeep.”“I’m afraid that won’t work,” Dr. Lucafont said gravely. “The city laws won’t allowanybody else to drive my car.”“And we haven’t even discussed the issue of the children’s luggage,” Mr. Poe said.Violet stood up, having heard enough to know she had enough time to go up toStephano’s room. Quietly, quietly, Violet walked up the staircase and down the hallwaytoward Stephano’s door, where he had sat holding the knife that fearsome night. When shereached his door, Violet stopped. It was amazing, she thought, how everything having todo with Count Olaf was frightening. He was such a terrible person that merely the sight ofhis bedroom door could get her heart pounding. Violet found herself half hoping thatStephano would bound up the stairs and stop her, just so she wouldn’t have to open thisdoor and go into the room where he slept. But then Violet thought of her own safety, andthe safety of her two siblings. If one’s safety is threatened, one often finds courage onedidn’t know one had, and the eldest Baudelaire found she could be brave enough to openthe door. Her shoulder still aching from the car collision, Violet turned the brass handle ofthe door and walked inside.The room, as Violet suspected, was a dirty mess. The bed was unmade and had crackercrumbs and bits of hair all over it. Discarded newspapers and mail-order catalogs lay onthe floor in untidy piles. On top of the dresser was a small assortment of half-empty winebottles. The closet door was open, revealing a bunch of rusty wire coathangers thatshivered in the drafty room. The curtains over the windows were all bunched up andencrusted with something flaky, and as Violet drew closer she realized with faint horrorthat Stephano had blown his nose on them.But although it was disgusting, hardened phlegm was not the sort of evidence Violetwas hoping for. The eldest Baudelaire orphan stood in the center of the room and surveyedthe sticky disorder of the bedroom. Everything was horrendous, nothing was helpful.Violet rubbed her sore shoulder and remembered when she and her siblings were livingwith Count Olaf and found themselves locked in his tower room. Although it wasfrightening to be trapped in his inner sanctum—a phrase which here means “filthy room inwhich evil plans are devised”—it turned out to be quite useful, because they were able toread up on nuptial law and work their way out of their predicament. But here, inStephano’s inner sanctum at Uncle Monty’s house, all Violet could find were signs ofuncleanliness. Somewhere Stephano must have left a trail of evidence that Violet couldfind and use to convince Mr. Poe, but where was it? Disheartened—and afraid she hadspent too much time in Stephano’s bedroom— Violet went quietly back downstairs.“No, no, no,” Mr. Poe was saying, when she stopped to listen at the kitchen door again.“Dr. Montgomery can’t drive. He’s dead. There must be a way to do this.”“I’ve told you over and over,” Stephano said, and Violet could tell that he was growingangry. “The easiest way is for me to take the three children into town, while you followwith Dr. Lucafont and the corpse. What could be simpler?”“Perhaps you’re right,” Mr. Poe said with a sigh, and Violet hurried into the ReptileRoom.“Klaus, Klaus,” she cried. “Tell me you’ve found something! I went to Stephano’s roombut there’s nothing there to help us, and I think Stephano’s going to get us alone in hiscar.”Klaus smiled for an answer and began to read out loud from the book he was holding.“‘The Mamba du Mal, ‘” he read, “‘is one of the deadliest snakes in the hemisphere, notedfor its strangulatory grip, used in conjunction with its deadly venom, giving all of itsvictims a tenebrous hue, which is ghastly to behold.’”“Strangulatory? Conjunction? Tenebrous? Hue ?” Violet repeated. “I have no idea whatyou’re talking about.”“I didn’t either,” Klaus admitted, “until I looked up some of the words.’Strangulatory’means ‘having to do with strangling.’ ‘In conjunction’ means ‘together.’ ‘Tenebrous’means ‘dark.’ And ‘hue’ means ‘color.’ So the Mamba du Mai is noted for stranglingpeople while it bites them, leaving their corpses dark with bruises.”“Stop! Stop!” Violet cried, covering her ears. “I don’t want to hear any more about whathappened to Uncle Monty!”“You don’t understand,” Klaus said gently. “That isn’t what happened to Uncle Monty.”“But Dr. Lucafont said there was the venom of the Mamba du Mal in Monty’s veins,”she said.“I’m sure there was,” Klaus said, “but the snake didn’t put it there. If it had, UncleMonty’s body would have been dark with bruises. But you and I remember that it was aspale as can be.”Violet started to speak, and then stopped, remembering the pale, pale face of UncleMonty when they discovered him. “That’s true,” she said. “But then how was hepoisoned?”“Remember how Uncle Monty said he kept the venoms of all his poisonous snakes intest tubes, to study them?” Klaus said. “I think Stephano took the venom and injected itinto Uncle Monty.”“Really?” Violet shuddered. “That’s awful.”“Okipi!” Sunny shrieked, apparently in agreement.“When we tell Mr. Poe about this,” Klaus said confidently, “Stephano will be arrestedfor Uncle Monty’s murder and sent to jail. No longer will he try to whisk us away to Peru ,or threaten us with knives, or make us carry his suitcase, or anything like that.”Violet looked at her brother, her eyes wide with excitement. “Suitcase!” she said. “Hissuitcase!”“What are you talking about?” Klaus said quizzically, and Violet was about to explainwhen there was a knock on the door.“Come in,” Violet called, signaling to Sunny not to bite Mr. Poe as he walked in.“I hope you are feeling a bit calmer,” Mr. Poe said, looking at each of the children inturn, “and no longer entertaining the thought that Stephano is Count Olaf.” When Mr. Poeused the word “entertaining” here he meant “thinking,” rather than “singing or dancing orputting on skits.”“Even if he’s not Count Olaf,” Klaus said carefully, “we think he may be responsiblefor Uncle Monty’s death.”“Nonsense!” Mr. Poe exclaimed, as Violet shook her head at her brother. “UncleMonty’s death was a terrible accident, and nothing more.”Klaus held up the book he was reading. “But while you were in the kitchen, we werereading about snakes, and—”“Reading about snakes?” Mr. Poe said. “I should think you’d want to read aboutanything but snakes, after what happened to Dr. Montgomery.”“But I found out something,” Klaus said, “that—”“It doesn’t matter what you found out about snakes,” Mr. Poe said, taking out ahandkerchief. The Baudelaires waited while he coughed into it before returning it to hispocket. “It doesn’t matter,” he said again, “what you found out about snakes. Stephanodoesn’t know anything about snakes. He told us that himself.”“But—” Klaus said, but he stopped when he saw Violet. She shook her head at himagain, just slightly. It was a signal, telling him not to say anything more to Mr. Poe. Helooked at his sister, and then at Mr. Poe, and shut his mouth.Mr. Poe coughed slightly into his handkerchief and looked at his wristwatch. “Now thatwe have settled that matter, there is the issue of riding in the car. I know that the three ofyou were eager to see the inside of a doctor’s automobile, but we’ve discussed it over andover and there’s simply no way it can work. You three are going to ride with Stephano intotown, while I will ride with Dr. Lucafont and your Uncle Monty. Stephano and Dr.Lucafont are unloading all the bags now and we will leave in a few minutes. If you willexcuse me, I have to call the Herpetological Society and tell them the bad news.” Mr. Poecoughed once more into his handkerchief and left the room.“Why didn’t you want me to tell Mr. Poe what I read?” Klaus asked Violet, when hewas sure Mr. Poe was out of earshot, a word which here means “close enough to hearhim.” Violet didn’t answer. She was looking through the glass wall of the Reptile Room,watching Dr. Lucafont and Stephano walk past the snake-shaped hedges to Uncle Monty’sjeep. Stephano opened the jeep door, and Dr. Lucafont began to carry suitcases out of thebackseat in his strangely stiff hands. “Violet, why didn’t you want me to tell Mr. Poe whatI read?”“When the adults come to fetch us,” Violet said, ignoring Klaus’s question, “keep themin the Reptile Room until I get back.”“But how will I do that?” Klaus asked.“Create a distraction,” Violet answered impatiently, still looking out the window at thelittle pile of suitcases Dr. Lucafont was making.“What distraction?” Klaus asked anxiously. “How?”“For goodness’ sake, Klaus,” his older sister replied. “You have read hundreds ofbooks. Surely you must have read something about creating a distraction.”Klaus thought for a second. “In order to win the Trojan War,” he said, “the ancientGreeks hid soldiers inside an enormous wooden horse. That was sort of a distraction. But Idon’t have time to build a wooden horse.”“Then you’ll have to think of something else,” Violet said, and began to walk towardthe door, still gazing out the window. Klaus and Sunny looked first at their sister, and thenout the window of the Reptile Room in the direction she was looking. It is remarkable thatdifferent people will have different thoughts when they look at the same thing. For whenthe two younger Baudelaires looked at the pile of suitcases, all they thought was thatunless they did something quickly, they would end up alone in Uncle Monty’s jeep withStephano. But from the way Violet was staring as she walked out of the Reptile Room, shewas obviously thinking something else. Klaus and Sunny could not imagine what it was,but somehow their sister had reached a different conclusion as she looked at her ownbrown suitcase, or perhaps the beige one that held Klaus’s things, or the tiny gray one thatwas Sunny’s, or maybe the large black one, with the shiny silver padlock, that belonged toStephano.The story’s moral, of course, ought to be “Never live somewhere where wolves arerunning around loose,” but whoever read you the story probably told you that the moralwas not to lie. This is an absurd moral, for you and I both know that sometimes not only isit good to lie, it is necessary to lie. For example, it was perfectly appropriate, after Violetleft the Reptile Room, for Sunny to crawl over to the cage that held the Incredibly DeadlyViper, unlatch the cage, and begin screaming as loudly as she could even though nothingwas really wrong.There is another story concerning wolves that somebody has probably read to you,which is just as absurd. I am talking about Little Red Riding Hood, an extremelyunpleasant little girl who, like the Boy Who Cried Wolf, insisted on intruding on theterritory of dangerous animals. You will recall that the wolf, after being treated veryrudely by Little Red Riding Hood, ate the little girl’s grandmother and put on her clothingas a disguise. It is this aspect of the story that is the most ridiculous, because one wouldthink that even a girl as dim-witted as Little Red Riding Hood could tell in an instant thedifference between her grandmother and a wolf dressed in a nightgown and fuzzy slippers.If you know somebody very well, like your grandmother or your baby sister, you willknow when they are real and when they are fake. This is why, as Sunny began to scream,Violet and Klaus could tell immediately that her scream was absolutely fake.“That scream is absolutely fake,” Klaus said to himself, from the other end of theReptile Room.“That scream is absolutely fake,” Violet said to herself, from the stairs as she went up toher room.“My Lord! Something is terribly wrong!” Mr. Poe said to himself, from the kitchenwhere he was talking on the phone. “Good-bye,” he said into the receiver, hung up, andran out of the kitchen to see what the matter was.“What’s the matter?” Mr. Poe asked Stephano and Dr. Lucafont, who had finishedunloading the suitcases and were entering the house. “I heard some screams coming fromthe Reptile Room.”“I’m sure it’s nothing,” Stephano said.“You know how children are,” Dr. Lucafont said.“We can’t have another tragedy on our hands,” Mr. Poe said, and rushed to theenormous door of the Reptile Room. “Children! Children!”“In here!” Klaus cried. “Come quickly!” His voice was rough and low, and anyone whodidn’t know Klaus would think he was very frightened. If you did know Klaus, however,you would know that when he was very frightened his voice became tense and squeaky, asit did when he discovered Uncle Monty’s body. His voice became rough and low when hewas trying not to laugh. It is a very good thing that Klaus managed not to laugh as Mr.Poe, Stephano, and Dr. Lucafont came into the Reptile Room. It would have spoiledeverything.Sunny was lying down on the marble floor, her tiny arms and legs waving wildly as ifshe were trying to swim. Her facial expression was what made Klaus want to chuckle.Sunny’s mouth was wide open, showing her four sharp teeth, and her eyes were blinkingrapidly. She was trying to appear to be very frightened, and if you didn’t know Sunny itwould have seemed genuine. But Klaus did know Sunny, and knew that when she wasvery frightened, her face grew all puckered and silent, as it did when Stephano hadthreatened to cut off one of her toes. To anyone but Klaus, Sunny looked as if she werevery frightened, particularly because of who she was with. For wrapped around Sunny’ssmall body was a snake, as dark as a coal mine and as thick as a sewer pipe. It was lookingat Sunny with shiny green eyes, and its mouth was open as if it were about to bite her.“The Incredibly Deadly Viper!” Klaus cried. “It’s going to bite her!” Klaus screamed,and Sunny opened her mouth and eyes even wider to seem even more scared. Dr.Lucafont’s mouth opened too, and Klaus saw him start to say something, but he wasunable to find words. Stephano, who of course could not have cared less about Sunny’swell-being, at least looked surprised, but it was Mr. Poe who absolutely panicked.There are two basic types of panicking: standing still and not saying a word, andleaping all over the place babbling anything that comes into your head. Mr. Poe was theleaping-and-babbling kind. Klaus and Sunny had never seen the banker move so quicklyor talk in such a high-pitched voice. “Goodness!” he cried. “Golly! Good God! BlessedAllah! Zeus and Hera! Mary and Joseph! Nathaniel Hawthorne! Don’t touch her! Grabher! Move closer! Run away! Don’t move! Kill the snake! Leave it alone! Give it somefood! Don’t let it bite her! Lure the snake away! Here, snakey! Here, snakey snakey!”The Incredibly Deadly Viper listened patiently to Mr. Poe’s speech, never taking itseyes off of Sunny, and when Mr. Poe paused to cough into his handkerchief, it leaned overand bit Sunny on the chin, right where it had bitten her when the two friends had first met.Klaus tried not to grin, but Dr. Lucafont gasped, Stephano stared, and Mr. Poe beganleaping and babbling again.“It’s bitten her!” he cried. “It bit her! It bited her! Calm down! Get moving! Call anambulance! Call the police! Call a scientist! Call my wife! This is terrible! This is awful!This is ghastly! This is phantasmagorical! This is—”“This is nothing to worry about,” Stephano interrupted smoothly.“What do you mean, nothing to worry about?” Mr. Poe asked incredulously. “Sunnywas just bitten by—what’s the name of the snake, Klaus?”“The Incredibly Deadly Viper,” Klaus answered promptly.“The Incredibly Deadly Viper!” Mr. Poe repeated, pointing to the snake as it held on toSunny’s chin with its teeth. Sunny gave another fake shriek of fear. “How can you say it’snothing to worry about?”“Because the Incredibly Deadly Viper is completely harmless,” Stephano said. “Calmyourself, Poe. The snake’s name is a misnomer that Dr. Montgomery created for his ownamusement.”“Are you sure?” Mr. Poe asked. His voice got a little lower, and he moved a bit moreslowly as he began to calm down.“Of course I’m sure,” Stephano said, and Klaus recognized a look on his face heremembered from living at Count Olaf’s. It was a look of sheer vanity, a word which heremeans “Count Olaf thinking he’s the most incredible person who ever lived.” When theBaudelaire orphans had been under Olaf’s care, he had often acted this way, always happyto show off his skills, whether he was onstage with his atrocious theater company or up inhis tower room making nasty plans. Stephano smiled, and continued to speak to Mr. Poe,eager to show off. “The snake is perfectly harmless—friendly, even. I read up on theIncredibly Deadly Viper, and many other snakes, in the library section of the ReptileRoom as well as Dr. Montgomery ‘s private papers.”Dr. Lucafont cleared his throat. “Uh, boss—” he said.“Don’t interrupt me, Dr. Lucafont,” Stephano said. “I studied books on all the majorspecies. I looked carefully at sketches and charts. I took careful notes and looked themover each night before I went to sleep. If I may say so, I consider myself to be quite theexpert on snakes.”“Aha!” Sunny cried, disentangling herself from the Incredibly Deadly Viper.“Sunny! You’re unharmed!” Mr. Poe cried.“Aha!” Sunny cried again, pointing at Stephano. The Incredibly Deadly Viper blinkedits green eyes triumphantly.Mr. Poe looked at Klaus, puzzled. “What does your sister mean by ‘Aha’?” he asked.Klaus sighed. He felt, sometimes, as if he had spent half his life explaining things to Mr.Poe. “By ‘Aha, ‘” he said, “she means ‘One minute’ Stephano claims he knows nothingabout snakes, the next he claims he is an expert! By ‘Aha’ she means ‘Stephano has beenlying to us.’ By ‘Aha’ she means ‘we’ve finally exposed his dishonesty to you!’ By ‘Aha’she means ‘Aha!’”house , that the evidence she had been looking for was undoubtedly in that verysuitcase. And now, while her siblings were distracting the adults in the Reptile Room,would be her only opportunity to open the suitcase and retrieve proof of Stephano’s evilplot. But her aching shoulder was a reminder that she couldn’t simply open the suitcase—it was locked, with a lock as shiny as Stephano’s scheming eyes. I confess that if I were inViolet’s place, with only a few minutes to open a locked suitcase, instead of on the deck ofmy friend Bela’s yacht, writing this down, I probably would have given up hope. I wouldhave sunk to the floor of the bedroom and pounded my fists against the carpet wonderingwhy in the world life was so unfair and filled with inconveniences.Luckily for the Baudelaires, however, Violet was made of sterner stuff, and she took agood look around her bedroom for anything that might help her. There wasn’t much in theway of inventing materials. Violet longed for a good room in which to invent things, filledwith wires and gears and all of the necessary equipment to invent really top-notch devices.Uncle Monty was in fact in possession of many of these supplies, but, to Violet’sfrustration as she thought of this, they were located in the Reptile Room. She looked at thepieces of butcher paper tacked to the wall, where she had hoped to sketch out inventionsas she lived in Uncle Monty’s house. The trouble had begun so quickly that Violet hadonly a few scribblings on one of the sheets, which she had written by the light of afloorlamp on her first night here. Violet’s eyes traveled to the floorlamp as sheremembered that evening, and when she reached the electric socket she had an idea.We all know, of course, that we should never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever fiddle around in any way withelectric devices. Never. There are two reasons for this. One is that you can getelectrocuted, which is not only deadly but very unpleasant, and the other is that you arenot Violet Baudelaire, one of the few people in the world who know how to handle suchthings. And even Violet was very careful and nervous as she unplugged the lamp and tooka long look at the plug itself. It might work.Hoping that Klaus and Sunny were continuing to stall the adults successfully, Violetwiggled the two prongs of the plug this way and that until at last they came loose fromtheir plastic casing. She now had two small metal strips. Violet then took one of thethumbtacks out of the butcher paper, letting the paper curl down the wall as if it were lazy.With the sharp end of the tack she poked and prodded the two pieces of metal until onewas hooked around the other, and then forced the thumbtack between the two pieces so thesharp end stuck straight out. The result looked like a piece of metal you might not notice ifit lay in the street, but in fact what Violet had made was a crude—the word “crude” heremeans “roughly made at the last minute” rather than “rude or ill-mannered”— lockpick.Lockpicks, as you probably know, are devices that work as if they were proper keys,usually used by bad guys to rob houses or escape from jail, but this was one of the raretimes when a lockpick was being used by a good guy: Violet Baudelaire.Violet walked quietly back down the stairs, holding her lockpick in one hand andcrossing her fingers with the other. She tiptoed past the enormous door of the ReptileRoom and hoped that her absence would not be noticed as she slipped outside.Deliberately averting her eyes from Dr. Lucafont’s car to avoid catching even a glimpse ofUncle Monty’s body, the eldest Baudelaire walked toward the pile of suitcases. She lookedfirst at the old ones belonging to the Baudelaires. Those suitcases contained, sheremembered, lots of ugly, itchy clothing that Mrs. Poe had bought for them soon after theirparents died. For a few seconds, Violet found herself staring at the suitcases, rememberinghow effortless her life had been before all this trouble had set upon them, and howsurprising it was to find herself in such miserable circumstances now. This may not besurprising to us, because we know how disastrous the lives of the Baudelaire orphans are,but Violet’s misfortune was constantly surprising to her and it took her a minute to pushthoughts of their situation out of her head and to concentrate on what she had to do.She knelt down to get closer to Stephano’s suitcase, held the shiny silver padlock in onehand, took a deep breath, and stuck the lock-pick into the keyhole. It went inside, butwhen she tried to turn it around, it scarcely budged, only scraped a little at the inside of thekeyhole. It needed to move more smoothly or it would never work. Violet took herlockpick out and wet it with her mouth, grimacing at the stale taste of the metal. Then shestuck the lockpick into the keyhole again and tried to move it. It wiggled slightly and thenlay still.Violet took the lockpick out and thought very, very hard, retying her hair in the ribbon.As she cleared the hair from her eyes, though, she felt a sudden prickle on her skin. It wasunpleasant and familiar. It was the feeling of being watched. She looked quickly behindher, but saw only the snake-shaped hedges on the lawn. She looked to the side and sawonly the driveway leading down to Lousy Lane . But then she looked straight ahead,through the glass walls of the Reptile Room.It had never occurred to her that people could see in through the Reptile Room’s wallsas clearly as they could see out, but when she looked up Violet could see, through thecages of reptiles, the figure of Mr. Poe leaping up and down excitedly. You and I know, ofcourse, that Mr. Poe was panicking over Sunny and the Incredibly Deadly Viper, but allViolet knew was that whatever ruse her siblings had devised was still working. The prickleon her skin was not explained, however, until she looked a little closer, just to the right ofMr. Poe, and saw that Stephano was looking right back at her.Her mouth fell open in surprise and panic. She knew that any second now, Stephanowould invent an excuse to leave the Reptile Room and come find her, and she hadn’t evenopened the suitcase. Quickly, quickly, quickly, she had to find some way to make herlockpick work. She looked down at the damp gravel of the driveway, and up at the dim,yellowish afternoon sun. She looked at her own hands, smudged with dust from pickingapart the electric plug, and that’s when she thought of something.Jumping to her feet, Violet sprinted back into the house as if Stephano were alreadyafter her and pushed her way through the door into the kitchen. Shoving a chair to thefloor in her haste, she grabbed a bar of soap from the dripping sink. She rubbed theslippery substance carefully over her lockpick until the entire invention had a thin, slickcoating. Her heart pounding in her chest, she ran back outside, taking a hurried lookthrough the walls of the Reptile Room. Stephano was saying something to Mr. Poe—hewas bragging about his expertise of snakes, but Violet had no way of knowing that—andViolet took this moment to kneel down and stick the lockpick back into the keyhole of thepadlock. It spun quickly all the way around and then snapped in two, right in her hands.There was a faint sputter of sound as one half fell to the grass, the other one sticking in thekeyhole like a jagged tooth. Her lockpick was destroyed.Violet closed her eyes for a moment in despair, and then pulled herself to her feet, usingthe suitcase to gain her balance. When she put her hand on the suitcase, however, thepadlock swung open, and the case tipped open and spilled everything all over the ground.Violet fell back down in surprise. Somehow, as the lock-pick turned, it must have unstuckthe lock. Sometimes even in the most unfortunate of lives there will occur a moment ortwo of good fortune.It is very difficult, experts have told us, to find a needle in a haystack, which is why“needle in a haystack” has become a rather hackneyed phrase meaning “something that isdifficult to find.” The reason it is difficult to find a needle in a haystack, of course, is thatout of all the things in a haystack, the needle is only one of them. If, however, you werelooking for anything in a haystack, that wouldn’t be difficult at all, because once youstarted sifting through the haystack you would most certainly find something: hay, ofcourse, but also dirt, bugs, a few farming tools, and maybe even a man who had escapedfrom prison and was hiding there. When Violet searched through the contents ofStephano’s suitcase, it was more like looking for anything in a haystack, because shedidn’t know exactly what she wanted to find. Therefore it was actually fairly easy to finduseful items of evidence: a glass vial with a sealed rubber cap, as one might find in ascientific laboratory; a syringe with a sharp needle, like the one your doctor uses to giveyou shots; a small bunch of folded papers; a card laminated in plastic; a powder puff andsmall hand mirror.Even though she knew she had only a few more moments, Violet separated these itemsfrom the smelly clothes and the bottle of wine that were also in the suitcase, and looked atall her evidence very carefully, concentrating on each item as if they were small parts outof which she was going to make a machine. And in a way, they were. Violet Baudelaireneeded to arrange these pieces of evidence to defeat Stephano’s evil plan and bring justiceand peace into the lives of the Baudelaire orphans for the first time since their parentsperished in the terrible fire. Violet gazed at each piece of evidence, thinking very hard, andbefore too long, her face lit up the way it always did when all the pieces of somethingwere fit together properly and the machine worked just the way it should.C H A P T E RTwelveI promise you that this is the last time that I will use the phrase “meanwhile, back atthe ranch,” but I can think of no other way to return to the moment when Klaus has justexplained to Mr. Poe what Sunny had meant by shouting “Aha!” and now everyone in theReptile Room was staring at Stephano. Sunny looked triumphant. Klaus looked defiant.Mr. Poe looked furious. Dr. Lucafont looked worried. You couldn’t tell how the IncrediblyDeadly Viper looked, because the facial expressions of snakes are difficult to read.Stephano looked back at all these people silently, his face fluttering as he tried to decidewhether to come clean, a phrase which here means “admit that he’s really Count Olaf andup to no good,” or perpetuate his deception, a phrase which here means “lie, lie, lie.”“Stephano,” Mr. Poe said, and coughed into his handkerchief. Klaus and Sunny waitedimpatiently for him to continue. “Stephano, explain yourself. You have just told us thatyou are an expert on snakes. Previously, however, you told us you knew nothing ofsnakes, and therefore couldn’t have been involved in Dr. Montgomery’s death. What isgoing on?”“When I told you I knew nothing of snakes,” Stephano said, “I was being modest. Now,if you will excuse me, I have to go outside for a moment, and—”“You weren’t being modest!” Klaus cried. “You were lying! And you are lying now!You’re nothing but a liar and murderer!”Stephano’s eyes grew wide and his face clouded in anger. “You have no evidence ofthat,” he said.“Yes we do,” said a voice in the doorway, and everyone turned around to find Violetstanding there, with a smile on her face and evidence in her arms. Triumphantly, shewalked across the Reptile Room to the far end, where the books Klaus had been readingabout the Mamba du Mal were still stacked in a pile. The others followed her, walkingdown the aisles of reptiles. Silently, she arranged the objects in a line on top of a table: theglass vial with the sealed rubber cap, the syringe with the sharp needle, the small bunch offolded papers, a card laminated in plastic, the powder puff and the small hand mirror.“What is all this?” Mr. Poe said, gesturing to the arrangement.“This,” Violet said, “is evidence, which I found in Stephano’s suitcase.”“My suitcase,” Stephano said, “is private property, which you are not allowed to touch.It’s very rude of you, and besides, it was locked.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 2- TheReptile Room“It was an emergency,” Violet said calmly, “so I picked the lock.”“How did you do that?” Mr. Poe asked. “Nice girls shouldn’t know how to do suchthings.”“My sister is a nice girl,” Klaus said, “and she knows how to do all sorts of things.”“Roofik!” Sunny agreed.“Well, we’ll discuss that later,” Mr. Poe said. “In the meantime, please continue.”“When Uncle Monty died,” Violet began, “my siblings and I were very sad, but wewere also very suspicious.”“We weren’t suspicious!” Klaus exclaimed. “If someone is suspicious, it means they’renot sure! We were positive that Stephano killed him!”“Nonsense!” Dr. Lucafont said. “As I explained to all of you, MontgomeryMontgomery’s death was an accident. The Mamba du Mal escaped from its cage and bithim, and that’s all there is to it.”“I beg your pardon,” Violet said, “but that is not all there is to it. Klaus read up on theMamba du Mal, and found out how it kills its victims.”Klaus walked over to the stack of books and opened the one on top. He had marked hisplace with a small piece of paper, so he found what he was looking for right away. ‘“TheMamba du Mal, ‘” he read out loud, “‘is one of the deadliest snakes in the hemisphere,noted for its strangulatory grip, used in conjunction with its deadly venom, giving all of itsvictims a tenebrous hue, which is ghastly to behold.’” He put the book down, and turnedto Mr. Poe. “‘Strangulatory’ means—”“We know what the words mean!” Stephano shouted.“Then you must know,” Klaus said, “that the Mamba du Mal did not kill Uncle Monty.His body didn’t have a tenebrous hue. It was as pale as could be.”“That’s true,” Mr. Poe said, “but it doesn’t necessarily indicate that Dr. Montgomerywas murdered.”“Yes,” Dr. Lucafont said. “Perhaps, just this once, the snake didn’t feel like bruising itsvictim.”“It is more likely,” Violet said, “that Uncle Monty was killed with these items.” Sheheld up the glass vial with the sealed rubber cap. “This vial is labeled ‘Venom du Mal, ‘and it’s obviously from Uncle Monty’s cabinet of venom samples.” She then held up thesyringe with the sharp needle. “Stephano—Olaf—took this syringe and injected thevenom into Uncle Monty. Then he poked an extra hole, so it would look like the snake hadbitten him.”“But I loved Dr. Montgomery,” Stephano said. “I would have had nothing to gain fromhis death.”Sometimes, when someone tells a ridiculous lie, it is best to ignore it entirely. “When Iturn eighteen, as we all know,” Violet continued, ignoring Stephano entirely, “I inherit theBaudelaire fortune, and Stephano intended to get that fortune for himself. It would beeasier to do so if we were in a location that was more difficult to trace, such as Peru .”Violet held up the small bunch of folded papers. “These are tickets for the Prospero,leaving Hazy Harbor for Peru at five o’clock today. That’s where Stephano was taking uswhen we happened to run into you, Mr. Poe.”“But Uncle Monty tore up Stephano’s ticket to Peru ,” Klaus said, looking confused. “Isaw him.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “That’s why he had to get Uncle Monty out of the way. Hekilled Uncle Monty—” Violet stopped for a minute and shuddered. “He killed UncleMonty, and took this laminated card. It’s Monty’s membership card for the HerpetologicalSociety. Stephano planned to pose as Uncle Monty to get on board the Prospero, andwhisk us away to Peru .”“But I don’t understand,” Mr. Poe said. “How did Stephano even know about yourfortune?”“Because he’s really Count Olaf,” Violet said, exasperated that she had to explain whatshe and her siblings and you and I knew the moment Stephano arrived at the house. “Hemay have shaved his head, and trimmed off his eyebrows, but the only way he could getrid of the tattoo on his left ankle was with this powder puff and hand mirror. There’smakeup all over his left ankle, to hide the eye, and I’ll bet if we rub it with a cloth we cansee the tattoo.”“That’s absurd!” Stephano cried.“We’ll see about that,” Mr. Poe replied. “Now, who has a cloth?”“Not me,” Klaus said.“Not me,” Violet said.“Guweel!” Sunny said.“Well, if nobody has a cloth, we might as well forget the whole thing,” Dr. Lucafontsaid, but Mr. Poe held up a finger to tell him to wait. To the relief of the Baudelaireorphans, he reached into his pocket and withdrew his handkerchief.“Your left ankle, please,” he said sternly to Stephano.“But you’ve been coughing into that all day!” Stephano said. “It has germs!”“If you are really who the children say you are,” Mr. Poe said, “then germs are the leastof your problems. Your left ankle, please.”Stephano—and this is the last time, thank goodness, we’ll have to call him by his phonyname—gave a little growl, and pulled his left pants leg up to reveal his ankle. Mr. Poeknelt down and rubbed at it for a few moments. At first, nothing appeared to happen, butthen, like a sun shining through clouds at the end of a terrible rainstorm, the faint outlineof an eye began to appear. Clearer and clearer it grew until it was as dark as it had beenwhen the orphans first saw it, back when they had lived with Count Olaf.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny all stared at the eye, and the eye stared back. For the first timein their lives, the Baudelaire orphans were happy to see it.C H A P T E RThirteenIf this were a book written to entertain small children, you would know what wouldhappen next. With the villain’s identity and evil plans exposed, the police would arrive onthe scene and place him in a jail for the rest of his life, and the plucky youngsters wouldgo out for pizza and live happily ever after. But this book is about the Baudelaire orphans,and you and I know that these three unfortunate children living happily ever after is aboutas likely as Uncle Monty returning to life. But it seemed to the Baudelaire orphans, as thetattoo became evident, that at least a little bit of Uncle Monty had come back to them asthey proved Count Olaf’s treachery once and for all.“That’s the eye, all right,” Mr. Poe said, and stopped rubbing Count Olaf’s ankle. “Youare most definitely Count Olaf, and you are most definitely under arrest.”“And I am most definitely shocked,” Dr. Lucafont said, clapping his oddly solid handsto his head.“As am I,” Mr. Poe agreed, grabbing Count Olaf’s arm in case he tried to run anywhere.“Violet, Klaus, Sunny—please forgive me for not believing you earlier. It just seemed toofar-fetched that he would have searched you out, disguised himself as a laboratoryassistant, and concocted an elaborate plan to steal your fortune.”“I wonder what happened to Gustav, Uncle Monty’s real lab assistant?” Klauswondered out loud. “If Gustav hadn’t quit, then Uncle Monty never would have hiredCount Olaf.”Count Olaf had been quiet this whole time, ever since the tattoo had appeared. Hisshiny eyes had darted this way and that, watching everyone carefully the way a lion willwatch a herd of antelope, looking for the one that would be best to kill and eat. But at themention of Gustav’s name, he spoke up.“Gustav didn’t quit,” he said in his wheezy voice. “Gustav is dead! One day when hewas out collecting wildflowers I drowned him in the Swarthy Swamp . Then I forged anote saying he quit.” Count Olaf looked at the three children as if he were going to runover and strangle them, but instead he stood absolutely still, which somehow was evenscarier. “But that’s nothing compared to what I will do to you, orphans. You have won thisround of the game, but I will return for your fortune, and for your precious skin.”“This is not a game, you horrible man,” Mr. Poe said. “Dominos is a game. Water polois a game. Murder is a crime, and you will go to jail for it. I will drive you to the policestation in town right this very minute. Oh, drat, I can’t. My car is wrecked. Well, I’ll takeyou down in Dr. Montgomery’s jeep, and you children can follow along in Dr. Lucafont’scar. I guess you’ll be able to see the inside of a doctor’s automobile, after all.”“It might be easier,” Dr. Lucafont said, “to put Stephano in my car, and have thechildren follow behind. After all, Dr. Montgomery’s body is in my car, so there’s no roomfor all three children, anyway.”“Well,” Mr. Poe said, “I’d hate to disappoint the children after they’ve had such a tryingtime. We can move Dr. Montgomery’s body to the jeep, and—”“We couldn’t care less about the inside of a doctor’s automobile,” Violet saidimpatiently. “We only made that up so we wouldn’t be trapped alone with Count Olaf.”“You shouldn’t tell lies, orphans,” Count Olaf said.“I don’t think you are in a position to give moral lectures to children, Olaf,” Mr. Poesaid sternly. “All right, Dr. Lucafont, you take him.”Dr. Lucafont grabbed Count Olaf’s shoulder with one of his oddly stiff hands, and ledthe way out of the Reptile Room and to the front door, stopping at the doorway to give Mr.Poe and the three children a thin smile.“Say good-bye to the orphans, Count Olaf,” Dr. Lucafont said.“Good-bye,” Count Olaf said.“Good-bye,” Violet said.“Good-bye,” Klaus said.Mr. Poe coughed into his handkerchief and gave a sort of disgusted half-wave at CountOlaf, indicating good-bye. But Sunny didn’t say anything. Violet and Klaus looked downat her, surprised that she hadn’t said “Yeet!” or “Libo!” or any of her various terms for“good-bye.” But Sunny was staring at Dr. Lucafont with a determined look in her eye, andin a moment she had leaped into the air and bitten him on the hand.“Sunny!” Violet said, and was about to apologize for her behavior when she saw Dr.Lucafont’s whole hand come loose from his arm and fall to the floor. As Sunny clampeddown on it with her four sharp teeth, the hand made a crackling sound, like breaking woodor plastic rather than skin or bone. And when Violet looked at the place where Dr.Lucafont’s hand had been, she saw no blood or indication of a wound, but a shiny, metalhook. Dr. Lucafont looked at the hook, too, and then at Violet, and grinned horribly. CountOlaf grinned too, and in a second the two of them had darted out the door.“The hook-handed man!” Violet shouted. “He’s not a doctor! He’s one of Count Olaf’shenchmen!” Instinctively, Violet grabbed the air where the two men had been standing,but of course they weren’t there. She opened the front door wide and saw the two of themsprinting through the snake-shaped hedges.“After them!” Klaus shouted, and the three Baudelaires started to run through the door.But Mr. Poe stepped in front of them and blocked their way.“No!” he cried.“But it’s the hook-handed man!” Violet shouted. “He and Olaf will get away!”“I can’t let you run out after two dangerous criminals,” Mr. Poe replied. “I amresponsible for the safety of you children, and I will not have any harm come to you.”“Then you go after them!” Klaus cried. “But hurry!”Mr. Poe began to step out the door, but he stopped when he heard the roar of a carengine starting up. The two ruffians—a word which here means “horrible people”—hadreached Dr. Lucafont’s car, and were already driving away.“Get in the jeep!” Violet exclaimed. “Follow them!”“A grown man,” Mr. Poe said sternly, “does not get involved in a car chase. This is ajob for the police. I’ll go call them now, and maybe they can set up roadblocks.”The Baudelaire youngsters watched Mr. Poe shut the door and race to the telephone,and their hearts sank. They knew it was no use. By the time Mr. Poe was throughexplaining the situation to the police, Count Olaf and the hook-handed man were sure tobe long gone. Suddenly exhausted, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny walked to Uncle Monty’senormous staircase and sat down on the bottom step, listening to the faint sound of Mr.Poe talking on the phone. They knew that trying to find Count Olaf and the hook-handedman, particularly when it grew dark, would be like trying to find a needle in a haystack.Despite their anxiety over Count Olaf’s escape, the three orphans must have fallenasleep for a few hours, for the next thing they knew, it was nighttime and they were stillon the bottom step. Somebody had placed a blanket over them, and as they stretchedthemselves, they saw three men in overalls walking out of the Reptile Room, carryingsome of the reptiles in their cages. Behind them walked a chubby man in a brightlycolored plaid suit, who stopped when he saw they were awake.“Hey, kids,” the chubby man said in a loud, booming voice. “I’m sorry if I woke youup, but my team has to move quickly.”“Who are you?” Violet asked. It is confusing to fall asleep in the daytime and wake upat night.“What are you doing with Uncle Monty’s reptiles?” Klaus asked. It is also confusing torealize you have been sleeping on stairs, rather than in a bed or sleeping bag.“Dixnik?” Sunny asked. It is always confusing why anyone would choose to wear aplaid suit.“The name’s Bruce,” Bruce said. “I’m the director of marketing for the HerpetologicalSociety. Your friend Mr. Poe called me to come and retrieve the snakes now that Dr.Montgomery has passed on. ‘Retrieve’ means ‘take away.’”“We know what the word ‘retrieve’ means,” Klaus said, “but why are you taking them?Where are they going?”“Well, you three are the orphans, right? You’ll be moving on to some other relative whowon’t die on you like Montgomery did. And these snakes need to be taken care of, sowe’re giving them away to other scientists, zoos, and retirement homes. Those we can’tfind homes for we’ll have put to sleep.”“But they’re Uncle Monty’s collection!” Klaus cried. “It took him years to find all thesereptiles! You can’t just scatter them to the winds!”“It’s the way it has to be,” Bruce said smoothly. He was still talking in a very loudvoice, for no apparent reason.“Viper!” Sunny shouted, and began to crawl toward the Reptile Room.“What my sister means,” Violet explained, “is that she’s very close friends with one ofthe snakes. Could we take just one with us—the Incredibly Deadly Viper?”“First off, no” Bruce said. “That guy Poe said all the snakes now belong to us. Andsecond off, if you think I’m going to let small children near the Incredibly Deadly Viper,think again.”“But the Incredibly Deadly Viper is harmless,” Violet said. “Its name is a misnomer.”Bruce scratched his head. “A what?”“That means ‘a wrong name, ‘” Klaus explained. “Uncle Monty discovered it, so he gotto name it.”“But this guy was supposed to be brilliant,” Bruce said. He reached into a pocket in hisplaid jacket and pulled out a cigar. “Giving a snake a wrong name doesn’t sound brilliantto me. It sounds idiotic. But then, what can you expect from a man whose own name wasMontgomery Montgomery?”“It is not nice,” Klaus said, “to lampoon someone’s name like that.”“I don’t have time to ask you what ‘lampoon’ means,” Bruce said. “But if the baby herewants to wave bye-bye to the Incredibly Deadly Viper, she’d better do it soon. It’s alreadyoutside.”Sunny began to crawl toward the front door, but Klaus was not through talking toBruce. “Our Uncle Monty was brilliant,” he said firmly.“He was a brilliant man,” Violet agreed, “and we will always remember him as such.”“Brilliant!” Sunny shrieked, in mid-crawl, and her siblings smiled down at her,surprised she had uttered a word that everyone could understand.Bruce lit his cigar and blew smoke into the air, then shrugged. “It’s nice you feel thatway, kid,” he said. “Good luck wherever they put you.” He looked at a shiny diamondwatch on his wrist, and turned to talk to the men in overalls. “Let’s get a move on. In fiveminutes we have to be back on that road that smells like ginger.”“It’s horseradish” Violet corrected, but Bruce had already walked away. She and Klauslooked at each other, and then began following Sunny outside to wave goodbye to theirreptile friends. But as they reached the door, Mr. Poe walked into the room and blockedthem again.“I see you’re awake,” he said. “Please go upstairs and go to sleep, then. We have to getup very early in the morning.”“We just want to say good-bye to the snakes,” Klaus said, but Mr. Poe shook his head.“You’ll get in Bruce’s way,” he replied. “Plus, I would think you three would neverwant to see a snake again.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another and sighed. Everything in the worldseemed wrong. It was wrong that Uncle Monty was dead. It was wrong that Count Olafand the hook-handed man had escaped. It was wrong for Bruce to think of Monty as aperson with a silly name, instead of a brilliant scientist. And it was wrong to assume thatthe children never wanted to see a snake again. The snakes, and indeed everything in theReptile Room, were the last reminders the Baudelaires had of the few happy days they’dspent there at the house—the few happy days they’d had since their parents had perished.Even though they understood that Mr. Poe wouldn’t let them live alone with the reptiles, itwas all wrong never to see them again, without even saying good-bye.Ignoring Mr. Poe’s instructions, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny rushed out the front doorwhere the men in overalls were loading the cages into a van with “Herpetological Society”written on the back. It was a full moon, and the moonlight reflected off the glass walls ofthe Reptile Room as though it were a large jewel with a bright, bright shine— brilliant,one might say. When Bruce had used the word “brilliant” about Uncle Monty, he meant“having a reputation for cleverness or intelligence.” But when the children used the word—and when they thought of it now, staring at the Reptile Room glowing in the moonlight—it meant more than that. It meant that even in the bleak circumstances of their currentsituation, even throughout the series of unfortunate events that would happen to them forthe rest of their lives, Uncle Monty and his kindness would shine in their memories. UncleMonty was brilliant, and their time with him was brilliant. Bruce and his men from theHerpetological Society could dismantle Uncle Monty’s collection, but nobody could everdismantle the way the Baudelaires would think of him.“Good-bye, good-bye!” the Baudelaire orphans called, as the Incredibly Deadly Viperwas loaded into the truck. “Good-bye, good-bye!” they called, and even though the Viperwas Sunny’s special friend, Violet and Klaus found themselves crying along with theirsister, and when the Incredibly Deadly Viper looked up to see them, they saw that it wascrying too, tiny shiny tears falling from its green eyes. The Viper was brilliant, too, and asthe children looked at one another, they saw their own tears and the way they shone.“You’re brilliant,” Violet murmured to Klaus, “reading up on the Mamba du Mal.”“You’re brilliant,” Klaus murmured back, “getting the evidence out of Stephano’ssuitcase.”“Brilliant!” Sunny said again, and Violet and Klaus gave their baby sister a hug. Eventhe youngest Baudelaire was brilliant, for distracting the adults with the Incredibly DeadlyViper.“Good-bye, good-bye!” the brilliant Baudelaires called, and waved to Uncle Monty’sreptiles. They stood together in the moonlight, and kept waving, even when Bruce shut thedoors of the van, even as the van drove past the snake-shaped hedges and down thedriveway to Lousy Lane , and even when it turned a corner and disappeared into the dark.A Series of Unfortunate Events 3- TheWide WindowASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the ThirdThe Wide WindowLemony SnicketFor BeatriceI would much prefer it if you were alive and well.C H A P T E ROneIf you didn’t know much about the Baudelaire orphans, and you saw them sitting ontheir suitcases at Damocles Dock, you might think that they were bound for an excitingadventure. After all, the three children had just disembarked from the Fickle Ferry, whichhad driven them across Lake Lachrymose to live with their Aunt Josephine, and in mostcases such a situation would lead to thrillingly good times.But of course you would be dead wrong. For although Violet, Klaus, and SunnyBaudelaire were about to experience events that would be both exciting and memorable,they would not be exciting and memorable like having your fortune told or going to arodeo. Their adventure would be exciting and memorable like being chased by a werewolfthrough a field of thorny bushes at midnight with nobody around to help you. If you areinterested in reading a story filled with thrillingly good times, I am sorry to inform youthat you are most certainly reading the wrong book, because the Baudelaires experiencevery few good times over the course of their gloomy and miserable lives. It is a terriblething, their misfortune, so terrible that I can scarcely bring myself to write about it. So ifyou do not want to read a story of tragedy and sadness, this is your very last chance to putthis book down, because the misery of the Baudelaire orphans begins in the very nextparagraph.“Look what I have for you,” Mr. Poe said, grinning from ear to ear and holding out asmall paper bag. “Peppermints!” Mr. Poe was a banker who had been placed in charge ofhandling the affairs of the Baudelaire orphans after their parents died. Mr. Poe waskindhearted, but it is not enough in this world to be kindhearted, particularly if you areresponsible for keeping children out of danger. Mr. Poe had known the three children sincethey were born, and could never remember that they were allergic to peppermints.“Thank you, Mr. Poe,” Violet said, and took the paper bag and peered inside. Like mostfourteen-year-olds, Violet was too well mannered to mention that if she ate a peppermintshe would break out in hives, a phrase which here means “be covered in red, itchy rashesfor a few hours.” Besides, she was too occupied with inventing thoughts to pay muchattention to Mr. Poe. Anyone who knew Violet would know that when her hair was tied upin a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes, the way it was now, her thoughts were filled withwheels, gears, levers, and other necessary things for inventions. At this particular momentshe was thinking of how she could improve the engine of the Fickle Ferry so it wouldn’tbelch smoke into the gray sky.“That’s very kind of you,” said Klaus, the middle Baudelaire child, smiling at Mr. Poeand thinking that if he had even one lick of a peppermint, his tongue would swell up andhe would scarcely be able to speak. Klaus took his glasses off and wished that Mr. Poe hadbought him a book or a newspaper instead. Klaus was a voracious reader, and when he hadlearned about his allergy at a birthday party when he was eight, he had immediately readall his parents’ books about allergies. Even four years later he could recite the chemicalformulas that caused his tongue to swell up.“Toi!” Sunny shrieked. The youngest Baudelaire was only an infant, and like manyinfants, she spoke mostly in words that were tricky to understand. By “Toi!” she probablymeant “I have never eaten a peppermint because I suspect that I, like my siblings, amallergic to them,” but it was hard to tell. She may also have meant “I wish I could bite apeppermint, because I like to bite things with my four sharp teeth, but I don’t want to riskan allergic reaction.”“You can eat them on your cab ride to Mrs. Anwhistle’s house,” Mr. Poe said, coughinginto his white handkerchief. Mr. Poe always seemed to have a cold and the Baudelaireorphans were accustomed to receiving information from him between bouts of hackingand wheezing. “She apologizes for not meeting you at the dock, but she says she’sfrightened of it.”“Why would she be frightened of a dock?” Klaus asked, looking around at the woodenpiers and sailboats.“She’s frightened of anything to do with Lake Lachrymose ,” Mr. Poe said, “but shedidn’t say why. Perhaps it has to do with her husband’s death. Your Aunt Josephine-she’snot really your aunt, of course; she’s your second cousin’s sister-in-law, but asked that youcall her Aunt Josephine-your Aunt Josephine lost her husband recently, and it may bepossible that he drowned or died in a boat accident. It didn’t seem polite to ask how shebecame a dowager. Well, let’s put you in a taxi.”“What does that word mean?” Violet asked.Mr. Poe looked at Violet and raised his eyebrows. “I’m surprised at you, Violet,” hesaid. “A girl of your age should know that a taxi is a car which will drive you someplacefor a fee. Now, let’s gather your luggage and walk to the curb.”“‘Dowager,’” Klaus whispered to Violet, “is a fancy word for ‘widow.’”“Thank you,” she whispered back, picking up her suitcase in one hand and Sunny in theother. Mr. Poe was waving his handkerchief in the air to signal a taxi to stop, and in notime at all the cabdriver piled all of the Baudelaire suitcases into the trunk and Mr. Poepiled the Baudelaire children into the back seat.“I will say good-bye to you here,” Mr. Poe said. “The banking day has already begun,and I’m afraid if I go with you out to Aunt Josephine’s I will never get anything done.Please give her my best wishes, and tell her that I will keep in touch regularly.” Mr. Poepaused for a moment to cough into his handkerchief before continuing. “Now, your AuntJosephine is a bit nervous about having three children in her house, but I assured her thatyou three were very well behaved. Make sure you mind your manners, and, as always, youcan call or fax me at the bank if there’s any sort of problem. Although I don’t imagineanything will go wrong this time.”When Mr. Poe said “this time,” he looked at the children meaningfully as if it were theirfault that poor Uncle Monty was dead. But the Baudelaires were too nervous aboutmeeting their new caretaker to say anything more to Mr. Poe except “So long.”“So long,” Violet said, putting the bag of peppermints in her pocket.“So long,” Klaus said, taking one last look at Damocles Dock.“Frul!” Sunny shrieked, chewing on her seat belt buckle.“So long,” Mr. Poe replied, “and good luck to you. I will think of the Baudelaires asoften as I can.”Mr. Poe gave some money to the taxi driver and waved good-bye to the three childrenas the cab pulled away from the dock and onto a gray, cobblestoned street. There was asmall grocery store with barrels of limes and beets out front. There was a clothing storecalled Look! It Fits!, which appeared to be undergoing renovations. There was a terriblelooking restaurant called the Anxious Clown, with neon lights and balloons in the window.But mostly, there were many stores and shops that were all closed up, with boards or metalgratings over the windows and doors.“The town doesn’t seem very crowded,” Klaus remarked. “I was hoping we mightmake some new friends here.”“It’s the off-season,” the cabdriver said. He was a skinny man with a skinny cigarettehanging out of his mouth, and as he talked to the children he looked at them through therear-view mirror. “The town of Lake Lachrymose is a resort, and when the nice weathercomes it’s as crowded as can be. But around now, things here are as dead as the cat I ranover this morning. To make new friends, you’ll have to wait until the weather gets a littlebetter. Speaking of which, Hurricane Herman is expected to arrive in town in a week or so.You better make sure you have enough food up there in the house.”“A hurricane on a lake?” Klaus asked. “I thought hurricanes only occurred near theocean.”“A body of water as big as Lake Lachrymose ,” the driver said, “can have anythingoccur on it. To tell you the truth, I’d be a little nervous about living on top of this hill.Once the storm hits, it’ll be very difficult to drive all the way down into town.”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked out the window and saw what the driver meant by “allthe way down.” The taxi had turned one last corner and arrived at the scraggly top of atall, tall hill, and the children could see the town far, far below them, the cobblestone roadcurling around the buildings like a tiny gray snake, and the small square of DamoclesDock with specks of people bustling around it. And out beyond the dock was the inky blobof Lake Lachrymose , huge and dark as if a monster were standing over the three orphans,casting a giant shadow below them. For a few moments the children stared into the lake asif hypnotized by this enormous stain on the landscape.“The lake is so enormous,” Klaus said, “and it looks so deep. I can almost understandwhy Aunt Josephine is afraid of it.”“The lady who lives up here,” the cabdriver asked, “is afraid of the lake?”“That’s what we’ve been told,” Violet said.The cabdriver shook his head and brought the cab to a halt. “I don’t know how she canstand it, then.”“What do you mean?” Violet asked. “You mean you’ve never been to this house?” heasked.“No, never,” Klaus replied. “We’ve never even met our Aunt Josephine before.”“Well, if your Aunt Josephine is afraid of the water,” the cabdriver said, “I can’t believeshe lives here in this house.”“What are you talking about?” Klaus asked. “Well, take a look,” the driver answered,and got out of the cab.The Baudelaires took a look. At first, the three youngsters saw only a small boxy squarewith a peeling white door, and it looked as if the house was scarcely bigger than the taxiwhich had taken them to it. But as they piled out of the car and drew closer, they saw thatthis small square was the only part of the house that was on top of the hill. The rest of it-alarge pile of boxy squares, all stuck together like ice cubes-hung over the side, attached tothe hill by long metal stilts that looked like spider legs. As the three orphans peered downat their new home, it seemed as if the entire house were holding on to the hill for dear life.The taxi driver took their suitcases out of the trunk, set them in front of the peelingwhite door, and drove down the hill with a toot! of his horn for a good-bye. There was asoft squeak as the peeling white door opened, and from behind the door appeared a palewoman with her white hair piled high on top of her head in a bun.“Hello,” she said, smiling thinly. “I’m your Aunt Josephine.”“Hello,” Violet said, cautiously, and stepped forward to meet her new guardian. Klausstepped forward behind her, and Sunny crawled forward behind him, but all threeBaudelaires were walking carefully, as if their weight would send the house toppling downfrom its perch. The orphans couldn’t help wondering how a woman who was so afraid ofLake Lachrymose could live in a house that felt like it was about to fall into its depths.everything in it, from the welcome mat-which, Aunt Josephine explained, could causesomeone to trip and break their neck-to the sofa in the living room, which she said couldfall over at any time and crush them flat.“This is the telephone,” Aunt Josephine said, gesturing to the telephone. “It should onlybe used in emergencies, because there is a danger of electrocution.”“Actually,” Klaus said, “I’ve read quite a bit about electricity. I’m pretty sure that thetelephone is perfectly safe.”Aunt Josephine’s hands fluttered to her white hair as if something had jumped onto herhead. “You can’t believe everything you read,” she pointed out.“I’ve built a telephone from scratch,” Violet said. “If you’d like, I could take thetelephone apart and show you how it works. That might make you feel better.”“I don’t think so,” Aunt Josephine said, frowning.“Delmo!” Sunny offered, which probably meant something along the lines of “If youwish, I will bite the telephone to show you that it’s harmless.”“Delmo?” Aunt Josephine asked, bending over to pick up a piece of lint from the fadedflowery carpet. “What do you mean by ‘delmo’? I consider myself an expert on theEnglish language, and I have no idea what the word ‘delmo’ means. Is she speaking someother language?”“Sunny doesn’t speak fluently yet, I’m afraid,” Klaus said, picking his little sister up.“Just baby talk, mostly.”“Grun!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something like “I object to your calling itbaby talk!”“Well, I will have to teach her proper English,” Aunt Josephine said stiffly. “I’m sureyou all need some brushing up on your grammar, actually. Grammar is the greatest joy inlife, don’t you find?”The three siblings looked at one another. Violet was more likely to say that inventingthings was the greatest joy in life, Klaus thought reading was, and Sunny of course tookno greater pleasure than in biting things. The Baudelaires thought of grammar-all thoserules about how to write and speak the English language-the way they thought of bananabread: fine, but nothing to make a fuss about. Still, it seemed rude to contradict AuntJosephine.“Yes,” Violet said finally. “We’ve always loved grammar.”Aunt Josephine nodded, and gave the Baudelaires a small smile. “Well, I’ll show you toyour room and continue the rest of the tour after dinner. When you open this door, justpush on the wood here. Never use the doorknob. I’m always afraid that it will shatter intoa million pieces and that one of them will hit my eye.”The Baudelaires were beginning to think that they would not be allowed to touch asingle object in the whole house, but they smiled at Aunt Josephine, pushed on the wood,and opened the door to reveal a large, well-lit room with blank white walls and a plainblue carpet on the floor. Inside were two good-sized beds and one good-sized crib,obviously for Sunny, each covered in a plain blue bedspread, and at the foot of each bedwas a large trunk, for storing things. At the other end of the room was a large closet foreveryone’s clothes, a small window for looking out, and a medium-sized pile of tin cansfor no apparent purpose.“I’m sorry that all three of you have to share a room,” Aunt Josephine said, “but thishouse isn’t very big. I tried to provide you with everything you would need, and I do hopeyou will be comfortable.”“I’m sure we will,” Violet said, carrying her suitcase into the room. “Thank you verymuch, Aunt Josephine.”“In each of your trunks,” Aunt Josephine said, “there is a present.”Presents? The Baudelaires had not received presents for a long, long time. Smiling,Aunt Josephine walked to the first trunk and opened it. “For Violet,” she said, “there is alovely new doll with plenty of outfits for it to wear.” Aunt Josephine reached inside andpulled out a plastic doll with a tiny mouth and wide, staring eyes. “Isn’t she adorable? Hername is Pretty Penny.”“Oh, thank you,” said Violet, who at fourteen was too old for dolls and had neverparticularly liked dolls anyway. Forcing a smile on her face, she took Pretty Penny fromAunt Josephine and patted it on its little plastic head.“And for Klaus,” Aunt Josephine said, “there is a model train set.” She opened thesecond trunk and pulled out a tiny train car. “You can set up the tracks in that empty cornerof the room.”“What fun,” said Klaus, trying to look excited. Klaus had never liked model trains, asthey were a lot of work to put together and when you were done all you had wassomething that went around and around in endless circles.“And for little Sunny,” Aunt Josephine said, reaching into the smallest trunk, which satat the foot of the crib, “here is a rattle. See, Sunny, it makes a little noise.”Sunny smiled at Aunt Josephine, showing all four of her sharp teeth, but her oldersiblings knew that Sunny despised rattles and the irritating sounds they made when youshook them. Sunny had been given a rattle when she was very small, and it was the onlything she was not sorry to lose in the enormous fire that had destroyed the Baudelairehome.“It is so generous of you,” Violet said, “to give us all of these things.” She was toopolite to add that they weren’t things they particularly liked.“Well, I am very happy to have you here,” Aunt Josephine said. “I love grammar somuch. I’m excited to be able to share my love of grammar with three nice children likeyourselves. Well, I’ll give you a few minutes to settle in and then we’ll have some dinner.See you soon.”“Aunt Josephine,” Klaus asked, “what are these cans for?”“Those cans? For burglars, naturally,” Aunt Josephine said, patting the bun of hair ontop of her head. “You must be as frightened of burglars as I am. So every night, simplyplace these tin cans right by the door, so that when burglars come in, they’ll trip over thecans and you’ll wake up.”“But what will we do then, when we’re awake in a room with an angry burglar?” Violetasked. “I would prefer to sleep through a burglary.”Aunt Josephine’s eyes grew wide with fear. “Angry burglars?” she repeated. “Angryburglars? Why are you talking about angry burglars? Are you trying to make us all evenmore frightened than we already are?”“Of course not,” Violet stuttered, not pointing out that Aunt Josephine was the one whohad brought up the subject. “I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to frighten you.”“Well, we’ll say no more about it,” Aunt Josephine said, looking nervously at the tincans as if a burglar were tripping on them at that very minute. “I’ll see you at the dinnertable in a few minutes.”Their new guardian shut the door, and the Baudelaire orphans listened to her footstepspadding down the hallway before they spoke.“Sunny can have Pretty Penny,” Violet said, handing the doll to her sister. “The plasticis hard enough for chewing, I think.”“And you can have the model trains, Violet,” Klaus said. “Maybe you can take apart theengines and invent something.”“But that leaves you with a rattle,” Violet said. “That doesn’t seem fair.”“Schu!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something along the lines of “It’s beena long time since anything in our lives has felt fair.”The Baudelaires looked at one another with bitter smiles. Sunny was right. It wasn’t fairthat their parents had been taken away from them. It wasn’t fair that the evil and revoltingCount Olaf was pursuing them wherever they went, caring for nothing but their fortune. Itwasn’t fair that they moved from relative to relative, with terrible things happening at eachof their new homes, as if the Baudelaires were riding on some horrible bus that stoppedonly at stations of unfairness and misery. And, of course, it certainly wasn’t fair that Klausonly had a rattle to play with in his new home.“Aunt Josephine obviously worked very hard to prepare this room for us,” Violet saidsadly. “She seems to be a good-hearted person. We shouldn’t complain, even toourselves.”“You’re right,” Klaus said, picking up his rattle and giving it a halfhearted little shake.“We shouldn’t complain.”“Twee!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “Both of you are right.We shouldn’t complain.”Klaus walked over to the window and looked out at the darkening landscape. The sunwas beginning to set over the inky depths of Lake Lachrymose , and a cold evening windwas beginning to blow. Even from the other side of the glass Klaus could feel a smallchill. “I want to complain, anyway,” he said.“Soup’s on!” Aunt Josephine called from the kitchen. “Please come to dinner!”Violet put her hand on Klaus’s shoulder and gave it a little squeeze of comfort, andwithout another word the three Baudelaires headed back down the hallway and into thedining room. Aunt Josephine had set the table for four, providing a large cushion forSunny and another pile of tin cans in the corner of the room, just in case burglars tried tosteal their dinner.“Normally, of course,” Aunt Josephine said, “‘soup’s on’ is an idiomatic expression thathas nothing to do with soup. It simply means that dinner is ready. In this case, however,I’ve actually made soup.”“Oh good,” Violet said. “There’s nothing like hot soup on a chilly evening.”“Actually, it’s not hot soup,” Aunt Josephine said. “I never cook anything hot becauseI’m afraid of turning the stove on. It might burst into flames. I’ve made chilled cucumbersoup for dinner.”The Baudelaires looked at one another and tried to hide their dismay. As you probablyknow , chilled cucumber soup is a delicacy that is best enjoyed on a very hot day. Imyself once enjoyed it in Egypt while visiting a friend of mine who works as a snakecharmer. When it is well prepared, chilled cucumber soup has a delicious, minty taste,cool and refreshing as if you are drinking something as well as eating it. But on a cold day,in a drafty room, chilled cucumber soup is about as welcome as a swarm of wasps at a batmitzvah. In dead silence, the three children sat down at the table with their Aunt Josephineand did their best to force down the cold, slimy concoction. The only sound was ofSunny’s four teeth chattering on her soup spoon as she ate her frigid dinner. As I’m sureyou know, when no one is speaking at the dinner table, the meal seems to take hours, so itfelt like much, much later when Aunt Josephine broke the silence.“My dear husband and I never had children,” she said, “because we were afraid to. ButI do want you to know that I’m very happy that you’re here. I am often very lonely up onthis hill by myself, and when Mr. Poe wrote to me about your troubles I didn’t want you tobe as lonely as I was when I lost my dear Ike.”“Was Ike your husband?” Violet asked.Aunt Josephine smiled, but she didn’t look at Violet, as if she were talking more toherself than to the Baudelaires. “Yes,” she said, in a faraway voice, “he was my husband,but he was much more than that. He was my best friend, my partner in grammar, and theonly person I knew who could whistle with crackers in his mouth.”“Our mother could do that,” Klaus said, smiling. “Her specialty was Mozart’sfourteenth symphony.”“Ike’s was Beethoven’s fourth quartet,” Aunt Josephine replied. “Apparently it’s afamily characteristic.”“I’m sorry we never got to meet him,” Violet said. “He sounds wonderful.”“He was wonderful,” Aunt Josephine said, stirring her soup and blowing on it eventhough it was ice cold. “I was so sad when he died. I felt like I’d lost the two most specialthings in my life.”“Two?” Violet asked. “What do you mean?”“I lost Ike,” Aunt Josephine said, “and I lost Lake Lachrymose . I mean, I didn’t reallylose it, of course. It’s still down in the valley. But I grew up on its shores. I used to swimin it every day. I knew which beaches were sandy and which were rocky. I knew all theislands in the middle of its waters and all the caves alongside its shore. Lake Lachrymosefelt like a friend to me. But when it took poor Ike away from me I was too afraid to gonear it anymore. I stopped swimming in it. I never went to the beach again. I even putaway all my books about it. The only way I can bear to look at it is from the WideWindow in the library.”“Library?” Klaus asked, brightening. “You have a library?”“Of course,” Aunt Josephine said. “Where else could I keep all my books on grammar?If you’ve all finished with your soup, I’ll show you the library.”“I couldn’t eat another bite,” Violet said truthfully.“Irm!” Sunny shrieked in agreement.“No, no, Sunny,” Aunt Josephine said. “‘Irm’ is not grammatically correct. You mean tosay, ‘I have also finished my supper.’”“Irm,” Sunny insisted.“My goodness, you do need grammar lessons,” Aunt Josephine said. “All the morereason to go to the library. Come, children.”Leaving behind their half-full soup bowls, the Baudelaires followed Aunt Josephinedown the hallway, taking care not to touch any of the doorknobs they passed. At the end ofthe hallway, Aunt Josephine stopped and opened an ordinary-looking door, but when thechildren stepped through the door they arrived in a room that was anything but ordinary.The library was neither square nor rectangular, like most rooms, but curved in the shapeof an oval. One wall of the oval was devoted to books-rows and rows and rows of them,and every single one of them was about grammar. There was an encyclopedia of nounsplaced in a series of simple wooden bookshelves, curved to fit the wall. There were verythick books on the history of verbs, lined up in metal bookshelves that were polished to abright shine. And there were cabinets made of glass, with adjective manuals placed insidethem as if they were for sale in a store instead of in someone’s house. In the middle of theroom were some comfortable-looking chairs, each with its own footstool so one couldstretch out one’s legs while reading.But it was the other wall of the oval, at the far end of the room, that drew the children’sattention. From floor to ceiling, the wall was a window, just one enormous curved pane ofglass, and beyond the glass was a spectacular view of Lake Lachrymose . When thechildren stepped forward to take a closer look, they felt as if they were flying high abovethe dark lake instead of merely looking out on it.“This is the only way I can stand to look at the lake,” Aunt Josephine said in a quietvoice. “From far away. If I get much closer I remember my last picnic on the beach withmy darling Ike. I warned him to wait an hour after eating before he went into the lake, buthe only waited fortyfive minutes. He thought that was enough.”“Did he get cramps?” Klaus asked. “That’s what’s supposed to happen if you don’t waitan hour before you swim.”“That’s one reason,” Aunt Josephine said, “but in Lake Lachrymose , there’s anotherone. If you don’t wait an hour after eating, the Lachrymose Leeches will smell food onyou, and attack.”“Leeches?” Violet asked.“Leeches,” Klaus explained, “are a bit like worms. They are blind and live in bodies ofwater, and in order to feed, they attach themselves to you and suck your blood.”Violet shuddered. “How horrible.”“Swoh!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something along the lines of “Why inthe world would you go swimming in a lake full of leeches?”“The Lachrymose Leeches,” Aunt Josephine said, “are quite different from regularleeches. They each have six rows of very sharp teeth, and one very sharp nose-they cansmell even the smallest bit of food from far, far away. The Lachrymose Leeches areusually quite harmless, preying only on small fish. But if they smell food on a human theywill swarm around him and-and …” Tears came to Aunt Josephine’s eyes, and she tookout a pale pink handkerchief and dabbed them away. “I apologize, children. It is notgrammatically correct to end a sentence with the word ‘and’, but I get so upset when Ithink about Ike that I cannot talk about his death.”“We’re sorry we brought it up,” Klaus said quickly. “We didn’t mean to upset you.”“That’s all right,” Aunt Josephine said, blowing her nose. “It’s just that I prefer to thinkof Ike in other ways. Ike always loved the sunshine, and I like to imagine that wherever heis now, it’s as sunny as can be. Of course, nobody knows what happens to you after youdie, but it’s nice to think of my husband someplace very, very hot, don’t you think?”“Yes I do,” Violet said. “It is very nice.” She swallowed. She wanted to say somethingelse to Aunt Josephine, but when you have only known someone for a few hours it isdifficult to know what they would like to hear. “Aunt Josephine,” she said timidly, “haveyou thought of moving someplace else? Perhaps if you lived somewhere far from LakeLachrymose , you might feel better.”“We’d go with you,” Klaus piped up.“Oh, I could never sell this house,” Aunt Josephine said. “I’m terrified of realtors.”The three Baudelaire youngsters looked at one another surreptitiously, a word whichhere means “while Aunt Josephine wasn’t looking.” None of them had ever heard of aperson who was frightened of realtors.There are two kinds of fears: rational and irrational-or, in simpler terms, fears that makesense and fears that don’t. For instance, the Baudelaire orphans have a fear of Count Olaf,which makes perfect sense, because he is an evil man who wants to destroy them. But ifthey were afraid of lemon meringue pie, this would be an irrational fear, because lemonmeringue pie is delicious and has never hurt a soul. Being afraid of a monster under thebed is perfectly rational, because there may in fact be a monster under your bed at anytime, ready to eat you all up, but a fear ofrealtors is an irrational fear. Realtors, as I’m sure you know, are people who assist inthe buying and selling of houses. Besides occasionally wearing an ugly yellow coat, theworst a realtor can do to you is show you a house that you find ugly, and so it iscompletely irrational to be terrified of them.As Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked down at the dark lake and thought about their newlives with Aunt Josephine, they experienced a fear themselves, and even a worldwideexpert on fear would have difficulty saying whether this was a rational fear or an irrationalfear. The Baudelaires’ fear was that misfortune would soon befall them. On one hand, thiswas an irrational fear, because Aunt Josephine seemed like a good person, and Count Olafwas nowhere to be seen. But on the other hand, the Baudelaires had experienced so manyterrible things that it seemed rational to think that another catastrophe was just around thecorner.There is a way of looking at life called “keeping things in perspective.” This simplymeans “making yourself feel better by comparing the things that are happening to youright now against other things that have happened at a different time, or to differentpeople.” For instance, if you were upset about an ugly pimple on the end of your nose, youmight try to feel better by keeping your pimple in perspective. You might compare yourpimple situation to that of someone who was being eaten by a bear, and when you lookedin the mirror at your ugly pimple, you could say to yourself, “Well, at least I’m not beingeaten by a bear.”You can see at once why keeping things in perspective rarely works very well, becauseit is hard to concentrate on somebody else being eaten by a bear when you are staring atyour own ugly pimple. So it was with the Baudelaire orphans in the days that followed. Inthe morning, when the children joined Aunt Josephine for a breakfast of orange juice anduntoasted bread, Violet thought to herself, “Well, at least we’re not being forced to cookfor Count Olaf’s disgusting theater troupe.” In the afternoon, when Aunt Josephine wouldtake them to the library and teach them all about grammar, Klaus thought to himself,“Well, at least Count Olaf isn’t about to whisk us away to Peru .” And in the evening,when the children joined Aunt Josephine for a dinner of orange juice and untoasted bread,Sunny thought to herself, “Zax!” which meant something along the lines of “Well, at leastthere isn’t a sign of Count Olaf anywhere.”But no matter how much the three siblings compared their life with Aunt Josephine tothe miserable things that had happened to them before, they couldn’t help but bedissatisfied with their circumstances. In her free time, Violet would dismantle the gearsand switches from the model train set, hoping to invent something that could prepare hotfood without frightening Aunt Josephine, but she couldn’t help wishing that AuntJosephine would simply turn on the stove. Klaus would sit in one of the chairs in thelibrary with his feet on a footstool, reading about grammar until the sun went down, butwhen he looked out at the gloomy lake he couldn’t help wishing that they were still livingwith Uncle Monty and all of his reptiles. And Sunny would take time out from herschedule and bite the head of Pretty Penny, but she couldn’t help wishing that their parentswere still alive and that she and her siblings were safe and sound in the Baudelaire home.Aunt Josephine did not like to leave the house very much, because there were so manythings outside that frightened her, but one day the children told her what the cabdriver hadsaid about Hurricane Herman approaching, and she agreed to take them into town in orderto buy groceries. Aunt Josephine was afraid to drive in automobiles, because the doorsmight get stuck, leaving her trapped inside, so they walked the long way down the hill. Bythe time the Baudelaires reached the market their legs were sore from the walk.“Are you sure that you won’t let us cook for you?” Violet asked, as Aunt Josephinereached into the barrel of limes. “When we lived with Count Olaf, we learned how tomake puttanesca sauce. It was quite easy and perfectly safe.”Aunt Josephine shook her head. “It is my responsibility as your caretaker to cook foryou, and I am eager to try this recipe for cold lime stew. Count Olaf certainly does soundevil. Imagine forcing children to stand near a stove!”“He was very cruel to us,” Klaus agreed, not adding that being forced to cook had beenthe least of their problems when they lived with Count Olaf. “Sometimes I still havenightmares about the terrible tattoo on his ankle. It always scared me.”Aunt Josephine frowned, and patted her bun. “I’m afraid you made a grammaticalmistake, Klaus,” she said sternly. “When you said, ‘It always scared me,’ you sounded asif you meant that his ankle always scared you, but you meant his tattoo. So you shouldhave said, ‘The tattoo always scared me.’ Do you understand?”“Yes, I understand,” Klaus said, sighing. “Thank you for pointing that out, AuntJosephine.”“Niku!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “It wasn’t very nice topoint out Klaus’s grammatical mistake when he was talking about something that upsethim.”“No, no, Sunny,” Aunt Josephine said firmly, looking up from her shopping list.“‘Niku’ isn’t a word. Remember what we said about using correct English. Now, Violet,would you please get some cucumbers? I thought I would make chilled cucumber soupagain sometime next week.”Violet groaned inwardly, a phrase which here means “said nothing but felt disappointedat the prospect of another chilly dinner,” but she smiled at Aunt Josephine and headeddown an aisle of the market in search of cucumbers. She looked wistfully at all thedelicious food on the shelves that required turning on the stove in order to prepare it.Violet hoped that someday she could cook a nice hot meal for Aunt Josephine and hersiblings using the invention she was working on with the model train engine. For a fewmoments she was so lost in her inventing thoughts that she didn’t look where she wasgoing until she walked right into someone.“Excuse m-” Violet started to say, but when she looked up she couldn’t finish hersentence. There stood a tall, thin man with a blue sailor hat on his head and a black eyepatch covering his left eye. He was smiling eagerly down at her as if she were a brightlywrapped birthday present that he couldn’t wait to rip open. His fingers were long andbony, and he was leaning awkwardly to one side, a bit like Aunt Josephine’s housedangling over the hill. When Violet looked down, she saw why: There was a thick stumpof wood where his left leg should have been, and like most people with peg legs, this manwas leaning on his good leg, which caused him to tilt. But even though Violet had neverseen anyone with a peg leg before, this was not why she couldn’t finish her sentence. Thereason why had to do with something she had seen before-the bright, bright shine in theman’s one eye, and above it, just one long eyebrow.When someone is in disguise, and the disguise is not very good, one can describe it as atransparent disguise. This does not mean that the person is wearing plastic wrap or glass oranything else transparent. It merely means that people can see through his disguise-that is,the disguise doesn’t fool them for a minute. Violet wasn’t fooled for even a second as shestood staring at the man she’d walked into. She knew at once it was Count Olaf.“Violet, what are you doing in this aisle?” Aunt Josephine said, walking up behind her.“This aisle contains food that needs to be heated, and you know-” When she saw CountOlaf she stopped speaking, and for a second Violet thought that Aunt Josephine hadrecognized him, too. But then Aunt Josephine smiled, and Violet’s hopes were dashed, aword which here means “shattered.”“Hello,” Count Olaf said, smiling at Aunt Josephine. “I was just apologizing forrunning into your sister here.”Aunt Josephine’s face grew bright red, seeming even brighter under her white hair. “Oh,no,” she said, as Klaus and Sunny came down the aisle to see what all the fuss was about.“Violet is not my sister, sir. I am her legal guardian.”Count Olaf clapped one hand to his face as if Aunt Josephine had just told him she wasthe tooth fairy. “I cannot believe it,” he said. “Madam, you don’t look nearly old enough tobe anyone’s guardian.”Aunt Josephine blushed again. “Well, sir, I have lived by the lake my whole life, andsome people have told me that it keeps me looking youthful.”“I would be happy to have the acquaintance of a local personage,” Count Olaf said,tipping his blue sailor hat and using a silly word which here means “person.” “I am new tothis town, and beginning a new business, so I am eager to make new acquaintances. Allowme to introduce myself.”“Klaus and I are happy to introduce you,” Violet said, with more bravery than I wouldhave had when faced with meeting Count Olaf again. “Aunt Josephine, this is Count-”“No, no, Violet,” Aunt Josephine interrupted. “Watch your grammar. You should havesaid ‘Klaus and I will be happy to introduce you,’ because you haven’t introduced us yet.”“But-” Violet started to say.“Now, Veronica,” Count Olaf said, his one eye shining brightly as he looked down ather. “Your guardian is right. And before you make any other mistakes, allow me tointroduce myself. My name is Captain Sham, and I have a new business renting sailboatsout on Damocles Dock. I am happy to make your acquaintance, Miss-?”“I am Josephine Anwhistle,” Aunt Josephine said. “And these are Violet, Klaus, andlittle Sunny Baudelaire.”“Little Sunny,” Captain Sham repeated, sounding as if he were eating Sunny rather thangreeting her. “It’s a pleasure to meet all of you. Perhaps someday I can take you out on thelake for a little boat ride.”“Ging!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “I would rather eatdirt.”“We’re not going anywhere with you,” Klaus said.Aunt Josephine blushed again, and looked sharply at the three children. “The childrenseem to have forgotten their manners as well as their grammar,” she said. “Pleaseapologize to Captain Sham at once.”“He’s not Captain Sham,” Violet said impatiently. “He’s Count Olaf.”Aunt Josephine gasped, and looked from the anxious faces of the Baudelaires to thecalm face of Captain Sham. He had a grin on his face, but his smile had slipped a notch, aphrase which here means “grown less confident as he waited to see if Aunt Josephinerealized he was really Count Olaf in disguise.”Aunt Josephine looked him over from head to toe, and then frowned. “Mr. Poe told meto be on the watch for Count Olaf,” she said finally, “but he did also say that you childrentended to see him everywhere.”“We see him everywhere,” Klaus said tiredly, “because he is everywhere.”“Who is this Count Omar person?” Captain Sham asked.“Count Olaf” Aunt Josephine said, “is a terrible man who-”“-is standing right in front of us,” Violet finished. “I don’t care what he calls himself.He has the same shiny eyes, the same single eyebrow-”“But plenty of people have those characteristics,” Aunt Josephine said. “Why, mymother-in-law had not only one eyebrow, but also only one ear.”“The tattoo!” Klaus said. “Look for the tattoo! Count Olaf has a tattoo of an eye on hisleft ankle.”Captain Sham sighed, and, with difficulty, lifted his peg leg so everyone could get aclear look at it. It was made of dark wood that was polished to shine as brightly as his eye,and attached to his left knee with a curved metal hinge. “But I don’t even have a leftankle,” he said, in a whiny voice. “It was all chewed away by the Lachrymose Leeches.”Aunt Josephine’s eyes welled up, and she placed a hand on Captain Sham’s shoulder.“Oh, you poor man,” she said, and the children knew at once that they were doomed. “Didyou hear what Captain Sham said?” she asked them.Violet tried one more time, knowing it would probably be futile, a word which heremeans “filled with futility.” “He’s not Captain Sham,” she said. “He’s-”“You don’t think he would allow the Lachrymose Leeches to chew off his leg,” AuntJosephine said, “just to play a prank on you? Tell us, Captain Sham. Tell us how ithappened.”“Well, I was sitting on my boat, just a few weeks ago,” Captain Sham said. “I waseating some pasta with puttanesca sauce, and I spilled some on my leg. Before I knew it,the leeches were attacking.”“That’s just how it happened with my husband,” Aunt Josephine said, biting her lip.The Baudelaires, all three of them, clenched their fists in frustration. They knew thatCaptain Sham’s story about the puttanesca sauce was as phony as his name, but theycouldn’t prove it.“Here,” Captain Sham said, pulling a small card out of his pocket and handing it toAunt Josephine. “Take my business card, and next time you’re in town perhaps we couldenjoy a cup of tea.”“That sounds delightful,” Aunt Josephine said, reading his card. ‘“Captain Sham’sSailboats. Every boat has it’s own sail.’ Oh, Captain, you have made a very seriousgrammatical error here.”“What?” Captain Sham said, raising his eyebrow.“This card says ‘it’s,’ with an apostrophe. I-T-apostrophe-S always means ‘it is.’ Youdon’t mean to say ‘Every boat has it is own sail.’ You mean simply I-T-S, ‘belonging to it.’It’s a very common mistake, Captain Sham, but a dreadful one.”Captain Sham’s face darkened, and it looked for a minute like he was going to raise hispeg leg again and kick Aunt Josephine with all his might. But then he smiled and his facecleared. “Thank you for pointing that out,” he said finally.“You’re welcome,” Aunt Josephine said. “Come, children, it’s time to pay for ourgroceries. I hope to see you soon, Captain Sham.”Captain Sham smiled and waved good-bye, but the Baudelaires watched as his smileturned to a sneer as soon as Aunt Josephine had turned her back. He had fooled her, andthere was nothing the Baudelaires could do about it. They spent the rest of the afternoontrudging back up the hill carrying their groceries, but the heaviness of cucumbers andlimes was nothing compared to the heaviness in the orphans’ hearts. All the way up thehill, Aunt Josephine talked about Captain Sham and what a nice man he was and howmuch she hoped they would see him again, while the children knew he was really CountOlaf and a terrible man and hoped they would never see him for the rest of their lives.There is an expression that, I am sad to say, is appropriate for this part of the story. Theexpression is “falling for something hook, line, and sinker,” and it comes from the worldof fishing. The hook, the line, and the sinker are all parts of a fishing rod, and they worktogether to lure fish out of the ocean to their doom. If somebody is falling for somethinghook, line, and sinker, they are believing a bunch of lies and may find themselves doomedas a result. Aunt Josephine was falling for Captain Sham’s lies hook, line, and sinker, butit was Violet, Klaus, and Sunny who were feeling doomed. As they walked up the hill insilence, the children looked down at Lake Lachrymose and felt the chill of doom fall overtheir hearts. It made the three siblings feel cold and lost, as if they were not simply lookingat the shadowy lake, but had been dropped into the middle of its depths.mouth . “He must be very lonely, moving to a new town and losing a leg. Maybe wecould have him over for dinner.”“We keep trying to tell you, Aunt Josephine,” Violet said, pushing the stew around onher plate so it would look like she’d eaten more than she actually had. “He’s not CaptainSham. He’s Count Olaf in disguise.”“I’ve had enough of this nonsense,” Aunt Josephine said. “Mr. Poe told me that CountOlaf had a tattoo on his left ankle and one eyebrow over his eyes. Captain Sham doesn’thave a left ankle and only has one eye. I can’t believe you would dare to disagree with aman who has eye problems.”“I have eye problems,” Klaus said, pointing to his glasses, “and you’re disagreeing withme.”“I will thank you not to be impertinent,” Aunt Josephine said, using a word which heremeans “pointing out that I’m wrong, which annoys me.” “It is very annoying. You willhave to accept, once and for all, that Captain Sham is not Count Olaf.” She reached intoher pocket and pulled out the business card. “Look at his card. Does it say Count Olaf?No. It says Captain Sham. The card does have a serious grammatical error on it, but it isnevertheless proof that Captain Sham is who he says he is.”Aunt Josephine put the business card down on the dinner table, and the Baudelaireslooked at it and sighed. Business cards, of course, are not proof of anything. Anyone cango to a print shop and have cards made that say anything they like. The king of Denmarkcan order business cards that say he sells golf balls. Your dentist can order business cardsthat say she is your grandmother. In order to escape from the castle of an enemy of mine, Ionce had cards printed that said I was an admiral in the French navy. Just becausesomething is typed-whether it is typed on a business card or typed in a newspaper or bookthis does not mean that it is true. The three siblings were well aware of this simple fact butcould not find the words to convince Aunt Josephine. So they merely looked at AuntJosephine, sighed, and silently pretended to eat their stew.It was so quiet in the dining room that everyone jumped-Violet, Klaus, Sunny, and evenAunt Josephine-when the telephone rang. “My goodness!” Aunt Josephine said. “Whatshould we do?”“Minka!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant something like “Answer it, ofcourse!”Aunt Josephine stood up from the table, but didn’t move even as the phone rang asecond time. “It might be important,” she said, “but I don’t know if it’s worth the risk ofelectrocution.”“If it makes you feel more comfortable,” Violet said, wiping her mouth with her napkin,“I will answer the phone.” Violet stood up and walked to the phone in time to answer it onthe third ring.“Hello?” she asked.“Is this Mrs. Anwhistle?” a wheezy voice asked.“No,” Violet replied. “This is Violet Baudelaire. May I help you?”A Series of Unfortunate Events 3- TheWide Window“Put the old woman on the phone, orphan,” the voice said, and Violet froze, realizing itwas Captain Sham. Quickly, she stole a glance at Aunt Josephine, who was now watchingViolet nervously.“I’m sorry,” Violet said into the phone. “You must have the wrong number.”“Don’t play with me, you wretched girl-” Captain Sham started to say, but Violet hungup the phone, her heart pounding, and turned to Aunt Josephine.“Someone was asking for the Hopalong Dancing School ,” she said, lying quickly. “Itold them they had the wrong number.”“What a brave girl you are,” Aunt Josephine murmured. “Picking up the phone likethat.”“It’s actually very safe,” Violet said.“Haven’t you ever answered the phone, Aunt Josephine?” Klaus asked.“Ike almost always answered it,” Aunt Josephine said, “and he used a special glove forsafety. But now that I’ve seen you answer it, maybe I’ll give it a try next time somebodycalls.”The phone rang, and Aunt Josephine jumped again. “Goodness,” she said, “I didn’tthink it would ring again so soon. What an adventurous evening!”Violet stared at the phone, knowing it was Captain Sham calling back. “Would you likeme to answer it again?” she asked.“No, no,” Aunt Josephine said, walking toward the small ringing phone as if it were abig barking dog. “I said I’d try it, and I will.” She took a deep breath, reached out anervous hand, and picked up the phone.“Hello?” she said. “Yes, this is she. Oh, hello, Captain Sham. How lovely to hear yourvoice.” Aunt Josephine listened for a moment, and then blushed bright red. “Well, that’svery nice of you to say, Captain Sham, but-what? Oh, all right. That’s very nice of you tosay, Julio. What? What? Oh, what a lovely idea. But please hold on one moment.”Aunt Josephine held a hand over the receiver and faced the three children. “Violet,Klaus, Sunny, please go to your room,” she said. “Captain Sham-I mean Julio, he askedme to call him by his first name-is planning a surprise for you children, and he wants todiscuss it with me.”“We don’t want a surprise,” Klaus said.“Of course you do,” Aunt Josephine said. “Now run along so I can discuss it withoutyour eavesdropping.”“We’re not eavesdropping,” Violet said, “but I think it would be better if we stayedhere.”“Perhaps you are confused about the meaning of the word ‘eavesdropping,’” AuntJosephine said. “It means ‘listening in.’ If you stay here, you will be eavesdropping. Pleasego to your room.”“We know what eavesdropping means,” Klaus said, but he followed his sisters downthe hallway to their room. Once inside, they looked at one another in silent frustration.Violet put aside pieces of the toy caboose that she had planned to examine that evening tomake room on her bed for the three of them to lie beside one another and frown at theceiling.“I thought we’d be safe here,” Violet said glumly. “I thought that anybody who wasfrightened of realtors would never be friendly to Count Olaf, no matter how he wasdisguised.”“Do you think that he actually let leeches chew off his leg,” Klaus wondered,shuddering, “just to hide his tattoo?”“Choin!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “That seems a little drastic, even forCount Olaf.”“I agree with Sunny,” Violet said. “I think he told that tale about leeches just to makeAunt Josephine feel sorry for him.”“And it sure worked,” Klaus said, sighing. “After he told her that sob story, she fell forhis disguise hook, line, and sinker.”“At least she isn’t as trusting as Uncle Monty,” Violet pointed out. “He let Count Olafmove right into the house.”“At least then we could keep an eye on him,” Klaus replied.“Ober!” Sunny remarked, which meant something along the lines of “Although we stilldidn’t save Uncle Monty.”“What do you think he’s up to this time?” Violet asked. “Maybe he plans to take us outin one of his boats and drown us in the lake.”“Maybe he wants to push this whole house off the mountain,” Klaus said, “and blame iton Hurricane Herman.”“Haftu!” Sunny said glumly, which probably meant something like “Maybe he wants toput the Lachrymose Leeches in our beds.”“Maybe, maybe, maybe,” Violet said. “All these maybes won’t get us anywhere.”“We could call Mr. Poe and tell him Count Olaf is here,” Klaus said. “Maybe he couldcome and fetch us.”“That’s the biggest maybe of them all,” Violet said. “It’s always impossible to convinceMr. Poe of anything, and Aunt Josephine doesn’t believe us even though she saw CountOlaf with her own eyes.”“She doesn’t even think she saw Count Olaf,” Klaus agreed sadly. “She thinks she sawCaptain Sham.”Sunny nibbled halfheartedly on Pretty Penny’s head and muttered “Poch!” whichprobably meant “You mean Julio.”“Then I don’t see what we can do,” Klaus said, “except keep our eyes and ears open.”“Doma,” Sunny agreed.“You’re both right,” Violet said. “We’ll just have to keep a very careful watch.”The Baudelaire orphans nodded solemnly, but the cold pit in their stomachs had notgone away. They all felt that keeping watch wasn’t really much of a plan for defendingthemselves from Captain Sham, and as it grew later and later it worried them more andmore. Violet tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes, as if she were inventingsomething, but she thought and thought for hours and hours and was unable to inventanother plan. Klaus stared at the ceiling with the utmost concentration, as if somethingvery interesting were written on it, but nothing helpful occurred to him as the hour grewlater and later. And Sunny bit Pretty Penny’s head over and over, but no matter how longshe bit it she couldn’t think of anything to ease the Baudelaires’ worries.I have a friend named Gina-Sue who is socialist, and Gina-Sue has a favorite saying:“You can’t lock up the barn after the horses are gone.” It means simply that sometimeseven the best of plans will occur to you when it is too late. This, I’m sorry to say, is thecase with the Baudelaire orphans and their plan to keep a close watch on Captain Sham,for after hours and hours of worrying they heard an enormous crash of shattering glass,and knew at once that keeping watch hadn’t been a good enough plan.“What was that noise?” Violet said, getting up off the bed.“It sounded like breaking glass,” Klaus said worriedly, walking toward the bedroomdoor.“Vestu!” Sunny shrieked, but her siblings did not have time to figure out what shemeant as they all hurried down the hallway.“Aunt Josephine! Aunt Josephine!” Violet called, but there was no answer. She peeredup and down the hallway, but everything was quiet. “Aunt Josephine!” she called again.Violet led the way as the three orphans ran into the dining room, but their guardian wasn’tthere either. The candles on the table were still lit, casting a flickering glow on thebusiness card and the bowls of cold lime stew.“Aunt Josephine!” Violet called again, and the children ran back out to the hallway andtoward the door of the library. As she ran, Violet couldn’t help but remember how she andher siblings had called Uncle Monty’s name, early one morning, just before discoveringthe tragedy that had befallen him. “Aunt Josephine!” she called. “Aunt Josephine!” Shecouldn’t help but remember all the times she had woken up in the middle of the night,calling out the names of her parents as she dreamed, as she so often did, of the terrible firethat had claimed their lives. “Aunt Josephine!” she said, reaching the library door. Violetwas afraid that she was calling out Aunt Josephine’s name when her aunt could no longerhear it.“Look,” Klaus said, and pointed to the door. A piece of paper, folded in half, wasattached to the wood with a thumbtack. Klaus pried the paper loose and unfolded it.“What is it?” Violet asked, and Sunny craned her little neck to see.“It’s a note,” Klaus said, and read it out loud:Violet, Klaus, and Sunny -By the time you read this note, my life will be at it’s end. My heart is as cold as ikeand I find life inbearable. I know your children may not understand the sad life of adowadger, or what would have leaded me to this desperate akt, but please know that I ammuch happier this way. As my last will and testament, I leave you three in the care ofCaptain Sham, a kind and honorable men. Please think of me kindly even though I’d donethis terrible thing.-Your Aunt Josephine“Oh no,” Klaus said quietly when he was finished reading. He turned the piece of paperover and over as if he had read it incorrectly, as if it said something different. “Oh no,” hesaid again, so faintly that it was as if he didn’t even know he was speaking out loud.Without a word Violet opened the door to the library, and the Baudelaires took a stepinside and found themselves shivering. The room was freezing cold, and after one glancethe orphans knew why. The Wide Window had shattered. Except for a few shards that stillstuck to the window frame, the enormous pane of glass was gone, leaving a vacant holethat looked out into the still blackness of the night.The cold night air rushed through the hole, rattling the bookshelves and making thechildren shiver up against one another, but despite the cold the orphans walked carefullyto the empty space where the window had been, and looked down. The night was so blackthat it seemed as if there was absolutely nothing beyond the window. Violet, Klaus, andSunny stood there for a moment and remembered the fear they had felt, just a few daysago, when they were standing in this very same spot. They knew now that their fear hadbeen rational.Huddling together, looking down into the blackness, the Baudelaires knew thattheir plan to keep a careful watch had come too late. They had locked the barn door, butpoor Aunt Josephine was already gone.C H A P T E RFiveViolet, Klaus, and Sunny -By the time you read this note, my life will be at it’s end. My heart is as cold as ikeand I find life inbearable. I know your children may not understand the sad life of adowadger, or what would have leaded me to this desperate akt, but please know that I ammuch happier this way. As my last will and testament, I leave you three in the care ofCaptain Sham, a kind and honorable men. Please think of me kindly even though I’d donethis terrible thing.-Your Aunt Josephine“Stop it!” Violet cried. “Stop reading it out loud, Klaus! We already know what it says.”“I just can’t believe it,” Klaus said, turning the paper around for the umpteenth time.The Baudelaire orphans were sitting glumly around the dining-room table with the coldlime stew in bowls and dread in their hearts. Violet had called Mr. Poe and told him whathad happened, and the Baudelaires, too anxious to sleep, had stayed up the whole nightwaiting for him to arrive on the first Fickle Ferry of the day. The candles were almostcompletely burned down, and Klaus had to lean forward to read Josephine’s note. “There’ssomething funny about this note, but I can’t put my finger on it.”“How can you say such a thing?” Violet asked. “Aunt Josephine has thrown herself outof the window. There’s nothing funny about it at all.”“Not funny as in a funny joke,” Klaus said. “Funny as in a funny smell. Why, in thevery first sentence she says ‘my life will be at it’s end.’”“And now it is,” Violet said, shuddering.“That’s not what I mean,” Klaus said impatiently. “She uses it’s, I-T apostrophe-S,which always means ‘it is.’ But you wouldn’t say ‘my life will be at it is end.’ She meansI-T-S, ‘belonging to it.’” He picked up Captain Sham’s business card, which was still lyingon the table. “Remember when she saw this card?’Every boat has it’s own sail.’ She said itwas a serious grammatical error.”“Who cares about grammatical errors,” Violet asked, “when Aunt Josephine hasjumped out the window?”“But Aunt Josephine would have cared,” Klaus pointed out. “That’s what she caredabout most: grammar. Remember, she said it was the greatest joy in life.”“Well, it wasn’t enough,” Violet said sadly. “No matter how much she liked grammar, itsays she found her life unbearable.”“But that’s another error in the note,” Klaus said. “It doesn’t say unbearable, with a U.It says inbearable, with an I.”“You are being unbearable, with a U,” Violet cried.“And you are being stupid, with an S,” Klaus snapped.“Aget!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “Please stopfighting!”Violet and Klaus looked at their baby sister and then at one another. Oftentimes, whenpeople are miserable, they will want to make other people miserable, too. But it neverhelps.“I’m sorry, Klaus,” Violet said meekly. “You’re not unbearable. Our situation isunbearable.”“I know,” Klaus said miserably. “I’m sorry, too. You’re not stupid, Violet. You’re veryclever. In fact, I hope you’re clever enough to get us out of this situation. Aunt Josephinehas jumped out the window and left us in the care of Captain Sham, and I don’t knowwhat we can do about it.”“Well, Mr. Poe is on his way,” Violet said. “He said on the phone that he would be herefirst thing in the morning, so we don’t have long to wait. Maybe Mr. Poe can be of somehelp.”“I guess so,” Klaus said, but he and his sisters looked at one another and sighed. Theyknew that the chances of Mr. Poe being of much help were rather slim. When theBaudelaires lived with Count Olaf, Mr. Poe was not helpful when the children told himabout Count Olaf’s cruelty. When the Baudelaires lived with Uncle Monty, Mr. Poe wasnot helpful when the children told him about Count Olaf’s treachery. It seemed clear thatMr. Poe would not be of any help in this situation, either.One of the candles burned out in a small puff of smoke, and the children sank downlower in their chairs. You probably know of a plant called the Venus flytrap, which growsin the tropics. The top of the plant is shaped like an open mouth, with tooth like spinesaround the edges. When a fly, attracted by the smell of the flower, lands on the Venusflytrap, the mouth of the plant begins to close, trapping the fly. The terrified fly buzzesaround the closed mouth of the plant, but there is nothing it can do, and the plant slowly,slowly, dissolves the fly into nothing. As the darkness of the house closed in around them,the Baudelaire youngsters felt like the fly in this situation. It was as if the disastrous firethat took the lives of their parents had been the beginning of a trap, and they hadn’t evenknown it. They buzzed from place to place-Count Olaf’s house in the city, Uncle Monty’shome in the country, and now, Aunt Josephine’s house overlooking the lake-but their ownmisfortune always closed around them, tighter and tighter, and it seemed to the threesiblings that before too long they would dissolve away to nothing.“We could rip up the note,” Klaus said finally. “Then Mr. Poe wouldn’t know aboutAunt Josephine’s wishes, and we wouldn’t end up with Captain Sham.”“But I already told Mr. Poe that Aunt Josephine left a note,” Violet said.“Well, we could do a forgery,” Klaus said, using a word which here means “writesomething yourself and pretend somebody else wrote it.” “We’ll write everything shewrote, but we’ll leave out the part about Captain Sham.”“Aha!” Sunny shrieked. This word was a favorite of Sunny’s, and unlike most of herwords, it needed no translation. What Sunny meant was “Aha!”, an expression ofdiscovery.“Of course!” Violet cried. “That’s what Captain Sham did! He wrote this letter, notAunt Josephine!”Behind his glasses, Klaus’s eyes lit up. “That explains it’s!”“That explains inbearable !” Violet said.“Leep!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “Captain Sham threw Aunt Josephineout the window and then wrote this note to hide his crime.”“What a terrible thing to do,” Klaus said, shuddering as he thought of Aunt Josephinefalling into the lake she feared so much.“Imagine the terrible things he will do to us,” Violet said, “if we don’t expose his crime.I can’t wait until Mr. Poe gets here so we can tell him what happened.”With perfect timing, the doorbell rang, and the Baudelaires hurried to answer it. Violetled her siblings down the hallway, looking wistfully at the radiator as she rememberedhow afraid of it Aunt Josephine was. Klaus followed closely behind, touching eachdoorknob gently in memory of Aunt Josephine’s warnings about them shattering intopieces. And when they reached the door, Sunny looked mournfully at the welcome matthat Aunt Josephine thought could cause someone to break their neck. Aunt Josephine hadbeen so careful to avoid anything that she thought might harm her, but harm had still comeher way.Violet opened the peeling white door, and there stood Mr. Poe in the gloomy light ofdawn. “Mr. Poe,” Violet said. She intended to tell him immediately of their forgery theory,but as soon as she saw him, standing in the doorway with a white handkerchief in onehand and a black briefcase in the other, her words stuck in her throat. Tears are curiousthings, for like earthquakes or puppet shows they can occur at any time, without anywarning and without any good reason. “Mr. Poe,” Violet said again, and without anywarning she and her siblings burst into tears. Violet cried, her shoulders shaking with sobs,and Klaus cried, the tears making his glasses slip down his nose, and Sunny cried, heropen mouth revealing her four teeth. Mr. Poe put down his briefcase and put away hishandkerchief. He was not very good at comforting people, but he put his arms around thechildren the best he could, and murmured “There, there,” which is a phrase some peoplemurmur to comfort other people despite the fact that it doesn’t really mean anything.Mr. Poe couldn’t think of anything else to say that might have comforted the Baudelaireorphans, but I wish now that I had the power to go back in time and speak to these threesobbing children. If I could, I could tell the Baudelaires that like earthquakes and puppetshows, their tears were occurring not only without warning but without good reason. Theyoungsters were crying, of course, because they thought Aunt Josephine was dead, and Iwish I had the power to go back and tell them that they were wrong. But of course, Icannot. I am not on top of the hill, overlooking Lake Lachrymose , on that gloomymorning. I am sitting in my room, in the middle of the night, writing down this story andlooking out my window at the graveyard behind my home. I cannot tell the Baudelaireorphans that they are wrong, but I can tell you, as the orphans cry in Mr. Poe’s arms, thatAunt Josephine is not dead. Not yet.Mr. Poe frowned, sat down at the table, and took out his handkerchief. “Forgery?” herepeated. The Baudelaire orphans had shown him the shattered window in the library.They had shown him the note that had been thumb-tacked to the door. And they hadshown him the business card with the grammatical mistake on it. “Forgery is a veryserious charge,” he said sternly, and blew his nose.“Not as serious as murder,” Klaus pointed out. “And that’s what Captain Sham did. Hemurdered Aunt Josephine and forged a note.”“But why would this Captain Sham person,” Mr. Poe asked, “go to all this trouble justto place you under his care?”“We’ve already told you,” Violet said, trying to hide her impatience. “Captain Sham isreally Count Olaf in disguise.”“These are very serious accusations,” Mr. Poe said firmly. “I understand that the threeof you have had some terrible experiences, and I hope you’re not letting your imaginationget the best of you. Remember when you lived with Uncle Monty? You were convincedthat his assistant, Stephano, was really Count Olaf in disguise.”“But Stephano was Count Olaf in disguise,” Klaus exclaimed.“That’s not the point,” Mr. Poe said. “The point is that you can’t jump to conclusions.If you really think this note is a forgery, then we have to stop talking about disguises anddo an investigation. Somewhere in this house, I’m sure we can find something that yourAunt Josephine has written. We can compare the handwriting and see if this note matchesup.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another. “Of course,” Klaus said. “If the note wefound on the library door doesn’t match Aunt Josephine’s handwriting, then it wasobviously written by somebody else. We didn’t think of that.”Mr. Poe smiled. “You see? You are very intelligent children, but even the mostintelligent people in the world often need the help of a banker. Now, where can we find asample of Aunt Josephine’s handwriting?”“In the kitchen,” Violet said promptly. “She left her shopping list in the kitchen whenwe got home from the market.”“Chuni!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “Let’s go to the kitchen and get it,”and that’s exactly what they did. Aunt Josephine’s kitchen was very small and had a largewhite sheet covering the stove and the oven-for safety, Aunt Josephine had explained,during her tour. There was a countertop where she prepared the food, a refrigerator whereshe stored the food, and a sink where she washed away the food nobody had eaten. To oneside of the countertop was a small piece of paper on which Aunt Josephine had made herlist, and Violet crossed the kitchen to retrieve it. Mr. Poe turned on the lights, and Violetheld the shopping list up to the note to see if they matched.There are men and women who are experts in the field of handwriting analysis. Theyare called graphologists, and they attend graph logical schools in order to get their degreein graphology. You might think that this situation would call for a graphologist, but thereare times when an expert’s opinion is unnecessary. For instance, if a friend of yoursbrought you her pet dog, and said she was concerned because it wasn’t laying eggs, youwould not have to be a veterinarian to tell her that dogs do not lay eggs and so there wasnothing to worry about.Yes, there are some questions that are so simple that anyone can answer them, and Mr.Poe and the Baudelaire orphans instantly knew the answer to the question “Does thehandwriting on the shopping list match the handwriting on the note?” The answer was yes.When Aunt Josephine had written “Vinegar” on the shopping list, she had curved the tipsof the V into tiny spirals-the same spirals that decorated the tips of the V in “Violet,” onthe note. When she had written “Cucumbers” on the shopping list, the Cs were slightlysquiggly, like earthworms, and the same earthworms appeared in the words “cold” and“Captain Sham” on the note. When Aunt Josephine had written “Limes” on the shoppinglist, the i was dotted with an oval rather than a circle, just as it was in “my life will be atit’s end.” There was no doubt that Aunt Josephine had written on both the pieces of paperthat Mr. Poe and the Baudelaires were examining.“I don’t think there’s any doubt that Aunt Josephine wrote on both these pieces ofpaper,” Mr. Poe said.“But-” Violet began.“There are no buts about it,” Mr. Poe said. “Look at the curvy Vs. Look at the squigglyC’s. Look at the oval dots over the I’s. I’m no graphologist, but I can certainly tell thatthese were written by the same person.”“You’re right,” Klaus said miserably. “I know that Captain Sham is behind thissomehow, but Aunt Josephine definitely wrote this note.”“And that,” Mr. Poe said, “makes it a legal document.”“Does that mean we have to live with Captain Sham?” Violet asked, her heart sinking.“I’m afraid so,” Mr. Poe replied. “Someone’s last will and testament is an officialstatement of the wishes of the deceased. You were placed in Aunt Josephine’s care, so shehad the right to assign you to a new caretaker before she leaped out the window. It is veryshocking, certainly, but it is entirely legal.”“We won’t go live with him,” Klaus said fiercely. “He’s the worst person on earth.”“He’ll do something terrible, I know it,” Violet said. “All he’s after is the Baudelairefortune.”“Gind!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something like “Please don’t make us live withthis evil man.”“I know you don’t like this Captain Sham person,” Mr. Poe said, “but there’s not muchI can do about it. I’m afraid the law says that that’s where you’ll go.”“We’ll run away,” Klaus said.“You will do nothing of the kind,” Mr. Poe said sternly. “Your parents entrusted me tosee that you would be cared for properly. You want to honor your parents’ wishes, don’tyou?”“Well, yes,” Violet said, “but-”“Then please don’t make a fuss,” Mr. Poe said. “Think of what your poor mother andfather would say if they knew you were threatening to run away from your guardian.”The Baudelaire parents, of course, would have been horrified to learn that their childrenwere to be in the care of Captain Sham, but before the children could say this to Mr. Poe,he had moved on to other matters. “Now, I think the easiest thing to do would be to meetwith Captain Sham and go over some details. Where is his business card? I’ll phone himnow.”“On the table, in the dining room,” Klaus said glumly, and Mr. Poe left the kitchen tomake the call. The Baudelaires looked at Aunt Josephine’s shopping list and the suicidenote.“I just can’t believe it,” Violet said. “I was sure we were on the right track with theforgery idea.”“Me too,” Klaus said. “Captain Sham has done something here-I know he has-but he’sbeen even sneakier than usual.”“We’d better be smarter than usual, then,” Violet replied, “because we’ve got toconvince Mr. Poe before it’s too late.”“Well, Mr. Poe said he had to go over some details,” Klaus said. “Perhaps that will takea long time.”“I got ahold of Captain Sham,” Mr. Poe said, coming back into the kitchen. “He wasshocked to hear of Aunt Josephine’s death but overjoyed at the prospect of raising youchildren. We’re meeting him in a half hour for lunch at a restaurant in town, and afterlunch we’ll go over the details of your adoption. By tonight you should be staying in hishouse. I’m sure you’re relieved that this can be sorted out so quickly.”Violet and Sunny stared at Mr. Poe, too dismayed to speak. Klaus was silent too, but hewas staring hard at something else. He was staring at Aunt Josephine’s note. His eyes werefocused in concentration behind his glasses as he stared and stared at it, without blinking.Mr. Poe took his white handkerchief out of his pocket and coughed into it at great lengthand with great gusto, a word which here means “in a way which produced a great deal ofphlegm.” But none of the Baudelaires said a word.“Well,” Mr. Poe said finally, “I will call for a taxicab. There’s no use walking down thatenormous hill. You children comb your hair and put your coats on. It’s very windy out andit’s getting cold. I think a storm might be approaching.”Mr. Poe left to make his phone call, and the Baudelaires trudged to their room. Ratherthan comb their hair, however, Sunny and Violet immediately turned to Klaus. “What?”Violet asked him.“What what?” Klaus answered.“Don’t give me that what what,” Violet answered. “You’ve figured something out,that’s what what. I know you have. You were rereading Aunt Josephine’s note for theumpteenth time, but you had an expression as if you had just figured something out. Now,what is it?”“I’m not sure,” Klaus said, looking over the note one more time. “I might have begunfiguring something out. Something that could help us. But I need more time.”“But we don’t have any time!” Violet cried.“We’re going to have lunch with Captain Sham right now!”“Then we’re going to have to make some more time, somehow,” Klaus saiddeterminedly.“Come on, children!” Mr. Poe called from the hallway. “The cab will be here anyminute! Get your coats and let’s go!”Violet sighed, but went to the closet and took out all three Baudelaire coats. She handedKlaus his coat, and buttoned Sunny into her coat as she talked to her brother. “How can wemake more time?” Violet asked.“You’re the inventor,” Klaus answered, buttoning his coat.“But you can’t invent things like time,” Violet said. “You can invent things likeautomatic popcorn poppers. You can invent things like steam-powered window washers.But you can’t invent more time.” Violet was so certain she couldn’t invent more time thatshe didn’t even put her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes. She merely gaveKlaus a look of frustration and confusion, and started to put on her coat. But as she did upthe buttons she realized she didn’t even need to put her hair up in a ribbon, because theanswer was right there with her.C H A P T E RSeven“Hello, I’m Larry, your waiter,” said Larry, the Baudelaire orphans’ waiter. He was ashort, skinny man in a goofy clown costume with a name tag pinned to his chest that readLARRY . “Welcome to the Anxious Clown restaurant- where everybody has a good time,whether they like it or not. I can see we have a whole family lunching together today, soallow me to recommend the Extra Fun Special Family Appetizer. It’s a bunch of thingsfried up together and served with a sauce.”“What a wonderful idea,” Captain Sham said, smiling in a way that showed all of hisyellow teeth. “An Extra Fun Special Family Appetizer for an extra fun special familymine”“I’ll just have water, thank you,” Violet said.“Same with me,” Klaus said. “And a glass of ice cubes for my baby sister, please.”“I’ll have a cup of coffee with nondairy creamer,” Mr. Poe said.“Oh, no, Mr. Poe,” Captain Sham said. “Let’s share a nice big bottle of red wine.”“No, thank you, Captain Sham,” Mr. Poe said. “I don’t like to drink during bankinghours.”“But this is a celebratory lunch,” Captain Sham exclaimed. “We should drink a toast tomy three new children. It’s not every day that a man becomes a father.”“Please, Captain,” Mr. Poe said. “It is heartening to see that you are glad to raise theBaudelaires, but you must understand that the children are rather upset about their AuntJosephine.”There is a lizard called the chameleon that, as you probably know, can change colorinstantly to blend into its surroundings. Besides being slimy and cold-blooded, CaptainSham resembled the chameleon in that he was chameleonic, a word means “able to blendin with any situation.” Since Mr. Poe and the Baudelaires had arrived at the AnxiousClown, Captain Sham had been unable to conceal his excitement at having the childrenalmost in his clutches. But now that Mr. Poe had pointed out that the occasion actuallycalled for sadness, Captain Sham instantly began to speak in a mournful voice. “I amupset, too,” he said, brushing a tear away from beneath his eye patch. “Josephine was oneof my oldest and dearest friends.”“You met her yesterday”’ Klaus said, “in the grocery store.”“It does only seem like yesterday,” Captain Sham said, “but it was really years ago. Sheand I met in cooking school. We were oven partners in the Advanced Baking Course.”“You weren’t even partners” Violet said, disgusted at Captain Sham’s lies. “AuntJosephine was desperately afraid of turning on the oven. She never would have attendedcooking school.”“We soon became friends,” Captain Sham said, going on with his story as if no one hadinterrupted, “and one day she said to me, ‘if I ever adopt some orphans and then meet anuntimely death, promise me you will raise them for me.’ I told her I would, but of course Inever thought I would have to keep my promise.”“That’s a very sad story,” Larry said, and everyone turned to see that their waiter wasstill standing over them. “I didn’t realize this was a sad occasion. In that case, allow me torecommend the Cheer-Up Cheeseburgers. The pickles, mustard, and ketchup make a littlesmiley face on top of the burger, which is guaranteed to get you smiling, too.”“That sounds like a good idea,” Captain Sham said. “Bring us all Cheer-UpCheeseburgers, Larry.”“They’ll be here in a jiffy,” the waiter promised, and at last he was gone.“Yes, yes,” Mr. Poe said, “but after we’ve finished our cheeseburgers, Captain Sham,there are some important papers for you to sign. I have them in my briefcase, and afterlunch we’ll look them over.”“And then the children will be mine?” Captain Sham asked.“Well, you will be caring for them, yes,” Mr. Poe said. “Of course, the Baudelairefortune will still be under my supervision, until Violet comes of age.”“What fortune?” Captain Sham asked, his eyebrow curling. “I don’t know anythingabout a fortune.”“Duna!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “Of course youdo!”“The Baudelaire parents,” Mr. Poe explained, “left an enormous fortune behind, and thechildren inherit it when Violet comes of age.”“Well, I have no interest in a fortune,” Captain Sham said. “I have my sailboats. Iwouldn’t touch a penny of it.”“Well, that’s good,” Mr. Poe said, “because you can’t touch a penny of it.”“We’ll see,” Captain Sham said.“What?” Mr. Poe asked.“Here are your Cheer-Up Cheeseburgers!” Larry sang out, appearing at their table witha tray full of greasy-looking food. “Enjoy your meal.”Like most restaurants filled with neon lights and balloons, the Anxious Clown servedterrible food. But the three orphans had not eaten all day, and had not eaten anything warmfor a long time, so even though they were sad and anxious they found themselves withquite an appetite. After a few minutes without conversation, Mr. Poe began to tell a verydull story about something that had happened at the bank. Mr. Poe was so busy talking,Klaus and Sunny were so busy pretending to be interested, and Captain Sham was so busywolfing down his meal, that nobody noticed what Violet was up to.When Violet had put on her coat to go out into the wind and cold, she had felt the lumpof something in her pocket. The lump was the bag of peppermints that Mr. Poe had giventhe Baudelaires the day they had arrived at Lake Lachrymose , and it had given her anidea. As Mr. Poe droned on and on, she carefully, carefully, took the bag of peppermintsout of her coat pocket and opened it. To her dismay, they were the kind of peppermintsthat are each wrapped up in a little bit of cellophane. Placing her hands underneath thetable, she unwrapped three peppermints, using the utmost-the word “utmost,” when it isused here, means “most”- care not to make any of those crinkling noises that come fromunwrapping candy and are so annoying in movie theaters. At last, she had three barepeppermints sitting on the napkin in her lap. Without drawing attention to herself, she putone on Klaus’s lap and one on Sunny’s.When her younger siblings felt something appear in their laps and looked down andsaw the peppermints, they at first thought the eldest Baudelaire orphan had lost her mind.But after a moment, they understood.If you are allergic to a thing, it is best not to put that thing in your mouth, particularly ifthe thing is cats. But Violet, Klaus, and Sunny all knew that this was an emergency. Theyneeded time alone to figure out Captain Sham’s plan, and how to stop it, and althoughcausing allergic reactions is a rather drastic way of getting time by yourself, it was theonly thing they could think of. So while neither of the adults at the table were watching,all three children put the peppermints into their mouths and waited.The Baudelaire allergies are famous for being quick-acting, so the orphans did not havelong to wait. In a few minutes, Violet began to break out in red, itchy hives, Klaus’stongue started to swell up, and Sunny, who of course had never eaten a peppermint, brokeout in hives and had her tongue swell up.Mr. Poe finally finished telling his story and then noticed the orphans’ condition. “Why,children,” he said, “you look terrible! Violet, you have red patches on your skin. Klaus,your tongue is hanging out of your mouth. Sunny, both things are happening to you.”“There must be something in this food that we’re allergic to,” Violet said.“My goodness,” Mr. Poe said, watching a hive on Violet’s arm grow to the size of ahardboiled egg.“Just take deep breaths,” Captain Sham said, scarcely looking up from hischeeseburger.“I feel terrible,” Violet said, and Sunny began to wail. “I think we should go home andlie down, Mr. Poe.”“Just lean back in your seat,” Captain Sham said sharply. “There’s no reason to leavewhen we’re in the middle of lunch.”“Why, Captain Sham,” Mr. Poe said, “the children are quite ill. Violet is right. Comenow, I’ll pay the bill and we’ll take the children home.”“No, no,” Violet said quickly. “We’ll get a taxi. You two stay here and take care of allthe details.”Captain Sham gave Violet a sharp look. “I wouldn’t dream of leaving you all alone,” hesaid in a dark voice.“Well, there is a lot of paperwork to go over,” Mr. Poe said. He glanced at his meal, andthe Baudelaires could see he was not too eager to leave the restaurant and care for sickchildren. “We wouldn’t be leaving them alone for long.”“Our allergies are fairly mild,” Violet said truthfully, scratching at one of her hives. Shestood up and led her swollen-tongued siblings toward the front door. “We’ll just lie downfor an hour or two while you have a relaxing lunch. When you have signed all the papers,Captain Sham, you can just come and retrieve us.”Captain Sham’s one visible eye grew as shiny as Violet had ever seen it. “I’ll do that,”he replied. “I’ll come and retrieve you very, very soon.”“Good-bye, children,” Mr. Poe said. “I hope you feel better soon. You know, CaptainSham, there is someone at my bank who has terrible allergies. Why, I remember one time…”“Leaving so soon?” Larry asked the three children as they buttoned up their coats.Outside, the wind was blowing harder, and it had started to drizzle as Hurricane Hermangot closer and closer to Lake Lachrymose . But even so, the three children were eager toleave the Anxious Clown, and not just because the garish restaurant-the word “garish”here means “filled with balloons, neon lights, and obnoxious waiters”-was filled withballoons, neon lights, and obnoxious waiters. The Baudelaires knew that they had inventedjust a little bit of time for themselves, and they had to use every second of it.C H A P T E REightWhen someone’s tongue swells up due to an allergic reaction, it is often difficult tounderstand what they are saying.“Bluh bluh bluh bluh bluh,” Klaus said, as the three children got out of the taxi andheaded toward the peeling white door of Aunt Josephine’s house.“I don’t understand what you’re saying,” Violet said, scratching at a hive on her neckthat was the exact shape of the state of Minnesota .“Bluh bluh bluh bluh bluh,” Klaus repeated, or perhaps he was saying something else; Ihaven’t the faintest idea.“Never mind, never mind,” Violet said, opening the door and ushering her siblingsinside. “Now you have the time that you need to figure out whatever it is that you’refiguring out.”“Bluh bluh bluh,” Klaus bluhed.“I still can’t understand you,” Violet said. She took Sunny’s coat off, and then her own,and dropped them both on the floor. Normally, of course, one should hang up one’s coaton a hook or in a closet, but itchy hives are very irritating and tend to make one abandonsuch matters. “I’m going to assume, Klaus, that you said something in agreement. Now,unless you need us to help you, I’m going to give Sunny and myself a baking soda bath tohelp our hives.”“Bluh!” Sunny shrieked. She meant to shriek “Gans!” which meant something alongthe lines of “Good, because my hives are driving me crazy!”“Bluh,” Klaus said, nodding vigorously, and he began hurrying down the hallway.Klaus had not taken off his coat, but it wasn’t because of his own irritating allergiccondition. It was because he was going someplace cold.When Klaus opened the door of the library, he was surprised at how much had changed.The wind from the approaching hurricane had blown away the last of the window, and therain had soaked some of Aunt Josephine’s comfortable chairs, leaving dark, spreadingstains. A few books had fallen from their shelves and blown over to the window, wherewater had swollen them. There are few sights sadder than a ruined book, but Klaus had notime to be sad. He knew Captain Sham would come and retrieve the Baudelaires as soonas he could, so he had to get right to work. First he took Aunt Josephine’s note out of hispocket and placed it on the table, weighing it down with books so it wouldn’t blow awayin the wind. Then he crossed quickly to the shelves and began to scan the spines of thebooks, looking for titles. He chose three: Basic Rules of Grammar and Punctuation,Handbook for Advanced Apostrophe Use, and The Correct Spelling of Every EnglishWord That Ever, Ever Existed. Each of the books was as thick as a watermelon, and Klausstaggered under the weight of carrying all three. With a loud thump he dropped them onthe table. “Bluh bluh bluh, bluh bluh bluh bluh,” he mumbled to himself, and found a penand got to work.A library is normally a very good place to work in the afternoon, but not if its windowhas been smashed and there is a hurricane approaching. The wind blew colder and colder,and it rained harder and harder, and the room became more and more unpleasant. ButKlaus took no notice of this. He opened all of the books and took copious-the word“copious” here means “lots of-notes, stopping every so often to draw a circle around somepart of what Aunt Josephine had written. It began to thunder outside, and with each roll ofthunder the entire house shook, but Klaus kept flipping pages and writing things down.Then, as lightning began to flash outside, he stopped, and stared at the note for a longtime, frowning intently. Finally, he wrote two words at the bottom of Aunt Josephine’snote, concentrating so hard as he did so that when Violet and Sunny entered the libraryand called out his name he nearly jumped out of his chair.“Bluh surprised bluh!” he shrieked, his heart pounding and his tongue a bit lessswollen.“I’m sorry,” Violet said. “I didn’t mean to surprise you.”“Bluh bluh take a baking soda bluh?” he asked.“No,” Violet replied. “We couldn’t take a baking soda bath. Aunt Josephine doesn’thave any baking soda, because she never turns on the oven to bake. We just took a regularbath. But that doesn’t matter, Klaus. What have you been doing, in this freezing room?Why have you drawn circles all over Aunt Josephine’s note?”“Bluhdying grammar,” he replied, gesturing to the books.“Bluh?” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “gluh?” which meant something alongthe lines of “Why are you wasting valuable time studying grammar?”“Bluhcause,” Klaus explained impatiently, “I think bluh Josephine left us a message inbluh note.”“She was miserable, and she threw herself out the window,” Violet said, shivering inthe wind. “What other message could there be?”“There are too many grammatical mistakes in the bluh,” Klaus said. “Aunt Josephineloved grammar, and she’d never make that many mistakes unless she had a bluh reason.So that’s what I’ve been doing bluh-counting up the grammatical mistakes.”“Bluh,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “Please continue,Klaus.”Klaus wiped a few raindrops off his glasses and looked down at his notes. “Well, wealready know that bluh first sentence uses the wrong ‘its.’ I think that was to get ourattention. But look at the second bluhtence. ‘My heart is as cold as Ike and I find lifeinbearable.’”“But the correct word is unbearable,” Violet said. “You told us that already.”“Bluh I think there’s more,” Klaus said. ‘“My heart is as cold as Ike’ doesn’t soundright to me. Remember, Aunt Josephine told us bluh liked to think of her husbandsomeplace very hot.”“That’s true,” Violet said, remembering. “She said it right here in this very room. Shesaid Ike liked the sunshine and so she imagined him someplace sunny.”“So I think Aunt Bluhsephine meant ‘cold as ice”’ Klaus said.“Okay, so we have ice and unbearable. So far this doesn’t mean anything to me,” Violetsaid.“Me neither,” Klaus said. “But look at bluh next part. ‘I know your children may notunderstand the sad life of a dowadger.’ We don’t have any children.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “I’m not planning to have children until I am considerablyolder.”“So why would Aunt Josephine say ‘your children’? I think she meant ‘you children.’And I looked up ‘dowadger’ in The Correct Spelling of Every English Word That Ever,Ever Existed.’”“Why?” Violet asked. “You already know it’s a fancy word for widow.”“It is a bluhncy word for widow,” Klaus replied, “but it’s spelled D-O-W-A-G-E-R.Aunt Josephine added an extra D.”“Cold as ice” Violet said, counting on her fingers, “unbearable, you children, and anextra D in dowager. That’s not much of a message, Klaus.”“Let me finish,” Klaus said. “I discovered even more grammbluhtical mistakes. Whenshe wrote, ‘or what would have leaded me to this desperate akt,’ she meant ‘what wouldhave led me,’ and the word ‘act,’ of course, is spelled with a C.”“Coik!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Thinking about all this is making me dizzy!”“Me too, Sunny,” Violet said, lifting her sister up so she could sit on the table. “But lethim finish.”“There are just bluh more,” Klaus said, holding up two fingers. “One, she calls CaptainSham ‘a kind and honorable men,’ when she should have said ‘a kind and honorable man.’And in the last sentence, Aunt Josephine wrote ‘Please think of me kindly even though I’ddone this terrible thing,’ but according to the Handbook for Advanced Apostrophe Use,she should have written ‘even though I’ve done this terrible thing.’”“But so what?” Violet asked. “What do all these mistakes mean?”Klaus smiled, and showed his sisters the two words he had written on the bottom of thenote.“Curdled Cave,” he read out loud.“Curdled veek ?’ Sunny asked, which meant ”Curdled what?”“Curdled Cave,” Klaus repeated. “If you take all the letters involved in the grammaticalmistakes, that’s what it spells. Look: C for ice instead of Ike. U for unbearable instead ofinbearable. The extra R in your children instead of you children, and the extra D indowager. L-ED for led instead of leaded. C for act instead of akt. A for man instead ofmen. And V-E for I’ve instead of I’d. That spells CURDLED CAVE. Don’t you see? AuntJosephine knew she was making grammatical errors, and she knew we’d spot them. Shewas leaving us a message, and the message is Curdled-”A Series of Unfortunate Events 3- TheWide WindowA great gust of wind interrupted Klaus as it came through the shattered window andshook the library as if it were maracas, a word which describes rattling percussioninstruments used in Latin American music. Everything rattled wildly around the library asthe wind flew through it. Chairs and footstools flipped over and fell to the floor with theirlegs in the air. The bookshelves rattled so hard that some of the heaviest books in AuntJosephine’s collection spun off into puddles of rainwater on the floor. And the Baudelaireorphans were jerked violently to the ground as a streak of lightning flashed across thedarkening sky.“Let’s get out of here!” Violet shouted over the noise of the thunder, and grabbed hersiblings by the hand. The wind was blowing so hard that the Baudelaires felt as if theywere climbing an enormous hill instead of walking to the door of the library. The orphanswere quite out of breath by the time they shut the library door behind them and stoodshivering in the hallway.“Poor Aunt Josephine,” Violet said. “Her library is wrecked.”“But I need to go back in there,” Klaus said, holding up the note. “We just found outwhat Aunt Josephine means by Curdled Cave , and we need a library to find out more.”“Not that library,” Violet pointed out. “All that library had were books on grammar. Weneed her books on Lake Lachrymose .”“Why?” Klaus asked.“Because I’ll bet you anything that’s where Curdled Cave is,” Violet said, “in LakeLachrymose . Remember she said she knew every island in its waters and every cave onits shore? I bet Curdled Cave is one of those caves.”“But why would her secret message be about some cave?” Klaus asked.“You’ve been so busy figuring out the message,” Violet said, “that you don’tunderstand what it means. Aunt Josephine isn’t dead. She just wants people to think she’sdead. But she wanted to tell us that she was hiding. We have to find her books on LakeLachrymose and find out where Curdled Cave is.”“But first we have to know where the books are,” Klaus said. “She told us she hid themaway, remember?”Sunny shrieked something in agreement, but her siblings couldn’t hear her over a burstof thunder.“Let’s see,” Violet said. “Where would you hide something if you didn’t want to look atit?”The Baudelaire orphans were quiet as they thought of places they had hidden thingsthey did not want to look at, back when they had lived with their parents in the Baudelairehome. Violet thought of an automatic harmonica she had invented that had made suchhorrible noises that she had hidden it so she didn’t have to think of her failure. Klausthought of a book on the Franco- Prussian War that was so difficult that he had hidden itso as not to be reminded that he wasn’t old enough to read it. And Sunny thought of apiece of stone that was too hard for even her sharpest tooth, and how she had hidden it soher jaw would no longer ache from her many attempts at conquering it. And all threeBaudelaire orphans thought of the hiding place they had chosen.“Underneath the bed,” Violet said.“Underneath the bed,” Klaus agreed.“Seeka yit,” Sunny agreed, and without another word the three children ran downthe hallway to Aunt Josephine’s room. Normally it is not polite to go into somebody’sroom without knocking, but you can make an exception if the person is dead, orpretending to be dead, and the Baudelaires went right inside. Aunt Josephine’s room wassimilar to the orphans’, with a navy-blue bedspread on the bed and a pile of tin cans in thecorner. There was a small window looking out onto the rain-soaked hill, and a pile of newgrammar books by the side of the bed that Aunt Josephine had not started reading, and,I’m sad to say, would never read. But the only part of the room that interested the childrenwas underneath the bed, and the three of them knelt down to look there.Aunt Josephine, apparently, had plenty of things she did not want to look at anymore.Underneath the bed there were pots and pans, which she didn’t want to look at becausethey reminded her of the stove. There were ugly socks somebody had given her as a giftthat were too ugly for human eyes. And the Baudelaires were sad to see a framedphotograph of a kind-looking man with a handful of crackers in one hand and his lipspursed as if he were whistling. It was Ike, and the Baudelaires knew that she had placedhis photograph there because she was too sad to look at it. But behind one of the biggestpots was a stack of books, and the orphans immediately reached for it.“The Tides of Lake Lachrymose,” Violet said, reading the title of the top book. “Thatwon’t help.”“The Bottom of Lake Lachrymose ,” Klaus said, reading the next one. “That’s notuseful.”“Lachrymose Trout,” Violet read.“The History of the Damocles Dock Region, ” Klaus read.“Ivan Lachrymose -Lake Explorer,” Violet read.“How Water Is Made,” Klaus read.“A Lachrymose Atlas,” Violet said.“Atlas? That’s perfect!” Klaus cried. “An atlas is a book of maps!”There was a flash of lightning outside the window, and it began to rain harder, making asound on the roof like somebody was dropping marbles on it. Without another word theBaudelaires opened the atlas and began flipping pages. They saw map after map of thelake, but they couldn’t find Curdled Cave.“This book is four hundred seventy-eight pages long,” Klaus exclaimed, looking at thelast page of the atlas. “It’ll take forever to find Curdled Cave .”“We don’t have forever,” Violet said. “Captain Sham is probably on his way here now.Use the index in the back. Look under ‘Curdled.’”Klaus flipped to the index, which I’m sure you know is an alphabetical list of eachthing a book contains and what page it’s on. Klaus ran his finger down the list of the Cwords, muttering out loud to himself. “Carp Cove, Chartreuse Island, Cloudy Cliffs,Condiment Bay , Curdled Cave-here it is! Curdled Cave, page one hundred four.” QuicklyKlaus flipped to the correct page and looked at the detailed map. “Curdled Cave, CurdledCave , where is it?”“There it is!” Violet pointed a finger at the tiny spot on the map marked Curdled Cave .“Directly across from Damocles Dock and just west of the Lavender Lighthouse. Let’sgo.”“Go?” Klaus said. “How will we get across the lake?”“The Fickle Ferry will take us,” Violet said, pointing at a dotted line on the map. “Look,the ferry goes right to the Lavender Lighthouse, and we can walk from there.”“We’re going to walk to Damocles Dock, in all this rain?” Klaus asked.“We don’t have any choice,” Violet answered. “We have to prove that Aunt Josephine isstill alive, or else Captain Sham gets us.”“I just hope she is still-” Klaus started to say, but he stopped himself and pointed out thewindow. “Look!”Violet and Sunny looked. The window in Aunt Josephine’s bedroom looked out ontothe hill, and the orphans could see one of the spidery metal stilts that kept AuntJosephine’s house from falling into the lake. But they could also see that this stilt had beenbadly damaged by the howling storm. There was a large black burn mark, undoubtedlyfrom lightning, and the wind had bent the stilt into an uneasy curve. As the storm ragedaround them, the orphans watched the stilt struggle to stay attached.“Tafca!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “We have to get out of here right now!”“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “Grab the atlas and let’s go.”Klaus grabbed A Lachrymose Atlas, not wanting to think what would be happening ifthey were still leafing through the book and had not looked up at the window. As theyoungsters stood up, the wind rose to a feverish pitch, a phrase which here means “itshook the house and sent all three orphans toppling to the floor.”Violet fell against one of the bedposts and banged her knee. Klaus fell against the coldradiator and banged his foot. And Sunny fell into the pile of tin cans and bangedeverything. The whole room seemed to lurch slightly to one side as the orphans staggeredback to their feet. “Come on!” Violet screamed, and grabbed Sunny. The orphans scurriedout to the hallway and toward the front door. A piece of the ceiling had come off, andrainwater was steadily pouring onto the carpet, splattering the orphans as they ranunderneath it. The house gave another lurch, and the children toppled to the floor again.Aunt Josephine’s house was starting to slip off the hill. “Come on!” Violet screamedagain, and the orphans stumbled up the tilted hallway to the door, slipping in puddles andon their own frightened feet. Klaus was the first to reach the front door, and yanked itopen as the house gave another lurch, followed by a horrible, horrible crunching sound.“Come on!” Violet screamed again, and the Baudelaires crawled out of the door and ontothe hill, huddling together in the freezing rain. They were cold. They were frightened. Butthey had escaped.I have seen many amazing things in my long and troubled life history. I have seen aseries of corridors built entirely out of human skulls. I have seen a volcano erupt and senda wall of lava crawling toward a small village. I have seen a woman I loved picked up byan enormous eagle and flown to its high mountain nest. But I still cannot imagine what itwas like to watch Aunt Josephine’s house topple into Lake Lachrymose . My own researchtells me that the children watched in mute amazement as the peeling white door slammedshut and began to crumple, as you might crumple a piece of paper into a ball. I have beentold that the children hugged each other even more tightly as they heard the rough andearsplitting noise of their home breaking loose from the side of the hill. But I cannot tellyou how it felt to watch the whole building fall down, down, down, and hit the dark andstormy waters of the lake below.mailperson wants to stay inside and enjoy a cup of cocoa, he or she has to bundle upand go outside and deliver your mail anyway. The United States Postal Service does notthink that icy storms should interfere with its duties.The Baudelaire orphans were distressed to learn that the Fickle Ferry had no suchpolicy. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny had made their way down the hill with much difficulty.The storm was rising, and the children could tell that the wind and the rain wanted nothingmore than to grab them and throw them into the raging waters of Lake Lachrymose .Violet and Sunny hadn’t had the time to grab their coats as they escaped the house, so allthree children took turns wearing Klaus’s coat as they stumbled along the flooding road.Once or twice a car drove by, and the Baudelaires had to scurry into the muddy bushes andhide, in case Captain Sham was coming to retrieve them. When they finally reachedDamocles Dock, their teeth were chattering and their feet were so cold they could scarcelyfeel their toes, and the sight of the CLOSED sign in the window of the Fickle Ferry ticketbooth was just about more than they could stand.“It’s closed” Klaus cried, his voice rising with despair and in order to be heard overHurricane Herman. “How will we get to Curdled Cave now?”“We’ll have to wait until it opens,” Violet replied.“But it won’t open until the storm is past,” Klaus pointed out, “and by then CaptainSham will find us and take us far away. We have to get to Aunt Josephine as soon aspossible.”“I don’t know how we can,” Violet said, shivering. “The atlas says that the cave is allthe way across the lake, and we can’t swim all that way in this weather.”“Entro!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “And we don’thave enough time to walk around the lake, either.”“There must be other boats on this lake,” Klaus said, “besides the ferry. Motorboats, orfishing boats, or-” He trailed off, and his eyes met those of his sisters. All three orphanswere thinking the same thing.“Or sailboats” Violet finished for him. “Captain Sham’s Sailboat Rentals. He said it wasright on Damocles Dock.”The Baudelaires stood under the awning of the ticket booth and looked down at the farend of the deserted dock, where they could see a metal gate that was very tall and hadglistening spikes on the top of it. Hanging over the metal gate was a sign with some wordsthey couldn’t read, and next to the sign there was a small shack, scarcely visible in therain, with a flickering light in the window. The children looked at it with dread in theirhearts. Walking into Captain Sham’s Sailboat Rentals in order to find Aunt Josephinewould feel like walking into a lion’s den in order to escape from a lion.“We can’t go there,” Klaus said.“We have to,” Violet said. “We know Captain Sham isn’t there, because he’s either onhis way to Aunt Josephine’s house or still at the Anxious Clown.”“But whoever is there,” Klaus said, pointing to the flickering light, “won’t let us rent asailboat.”“They won’t know we’re the Baudelaires,” Violet replied. “We’ll tell whoever it is thatwe’re the Jones children and that we want to go for a sail.”“In the middle of a hurricane?” Klaus replied. “They won’t believe that.”“They’ll have to,” Violet said resolutely, a word which here means “as if she believedit, even though she wasn’t so sure,” and she led her siblings toward the shack. Klausclasped the atlas close to his chest, and Sunny, whose turn it was for Klaus’s coat, clutchedit around herself, and soon the Baudelaires were shivering underneath the sign that read:CAPTAIN SHAM’S SAILBOAT RENTALS-EVERY BOAT HAS IT’S OWN SAIL. Butthe tall metal gate was locked up tight, and the Baudelaires paused there, anxious aboutgoing inside the shack.“Let’s take a look,” Klaus whispered, pointing to a window, but it was too high for himor Sunny to use. Standing on tiptoe, Violet peered into the window of the shack and withone glance she knew there was no way they could rent a sailboat.The shack was very small, with only room for a small desk and a single lightbulb,which was giving off the flickering light. But at the desk, asleep in a chair, was a person somassive that it looked like an enormous blob was in the shack, snoring away with a bottleof beer in one hand and a ring of keys in the other. As the person snored, the bottle shook,the keys jangled, and the door of the shack creaked open an inch or two, but althoughthose noises were quite spooky, they weren’t what frightened Violet. What frightenedViolet was that you couldn’t tell if this person was a man or a woman. There aren’t verymany people like that in the world, and Violet knew which one this was. Perhaps you haveforgotten about Count Olaf’s evil comrades, but the Baudelaires had seen them in theflesh-lots of flesh, in this comrade’s case-and remembered all of them in gruesome detail.These people were rude, and they were sneaky, and they did whatever Count Olaf-or inthis case, Captain Sham-told them to do, and the orphans never knew when they wouldturn up. And now, one had turned up right there in the shack, dangerous, treacherous, andsnoring.Violet’s face must have shown her disappointment, because as soon as she took a lookKlaus asked, “What’s wrong? I mean, besides Hurricane Herman, and Aunt Josephinefaking her own death, and Captain Sham coming after us and everything.”“One of Count Olaf’s comrades is in the shack,” Violet said.“Which one?” Klaus asked.“The one who looks like neither a man nor a woman,” Violet replied.Klaus shuddered. “That’s the scariest one.”“I disagree,” Violet said. “I think the bald one is scariest.”“Vass!” Sunny whispered, which probably meant “Let’s discuss this at another time.”“Did he or she see you?” Klaus asked.“No,” Violet said. “He or she is asleep. But he or she is holding a ring of keys. We’llneed them, I bet, to unlock the gate and get a sailboat.”“You mean we’re going to steal a sailboat?” Klaus asked.“We have no choice,” Violet said. Stealing, of course, is a crime, and a very impolitething to do. But like most impolite things, it is excusable under certain circumstances.Stealing is not excusable if, for instance, you are in a museum and you decide that acertain painting would look better in your house, and you simply grab the painting andtake it there. But if you were very, very hungry, and you had no way of obtaining money, itmight be excusable to grab the painting, take it to your house, and eat it. “We have to getto Curdled Cave as quickly as possible,” Violet continued, “and the only way we can do itis to steal a sailboat.”“I know that,” Klaus said, “but how are we going to get the keys?”“I don’t know,” Violet admitted. “The door of the shack is creaky, and I’m afraid if weopen it any wider we’ll wake him or her up.”“You could crawl through the window,” Klaus said, “by standing on my shoulders.Sunny could keep watch.”“Where is Sunny?” Violet asked nervously.Violet and Klaus looked down at the ground and saw Klaus’s coat sitting alone in alittle heap. They looked down the dock but only saw the Fickle Ferry ticket booth and thefoamy waters of the lake, darkening in the gloom of the late afternoon.“She’s gone!” Klaus cried, but Violet put a finger to her lips and stood on tiptoe to lookin the window again. Sunny was crawling through the open door of the shack, flatteningher little body enough so as not to open the door any wider.“She’s inside,” Violet murmured.“In the shack?” Klaus said in a horrified gasp. “Oh no. We have to stop her.”“She’s crawling very slowly toward that person,” Violet said, afraid even to blink.“We promised our parents we’d take care of her,” Klaus said. “We can’t let her do this.”“She’s reaching toward the key ring,” Violet said breathlessly. “She’s gently prying itloose from the person’s hand.”“Don’t tell me any more,” Klaus said, as a bolt of lightning streaked across the sky.“No, do tell me. What is happening?”“She has the keys,” Violet said. “She’s putting them in her mouth to hold them. She’scrawling back toward the door. She’s flattening herself and crawling through.”“She’s made it,” Klaus said in amazement. Sunny came crawling triumphantly towardthe orphans, the keys in her mouth. “Violet, she made it,” Klaus said, giving Sunny a hugas a huge boom! of thunder echoed across the sky.Violet smiled down at Sunny, but stopped smiling when she looked back into the shack.The thunder had awoken Count Olaf’s comrade, and Violet watched in dismay as theperson looked at its empty hand where the key ring had been, and then down on the floorwhere Sunny had left little crawl-prints of rainwater, and then up to the window and rightinto Violet’s eyes.“She’s awake!” Violet shrieked. “He’s awake! It’s awake! Hurry, Klaus, open the gateand I’ll try to distract it.”Without another word, Klaus took the key ring from Sunny’s mouth and hurried to thetall metal gate. There were three keys on the ring- a skinny one, a thick one, and one withteeth as jagged as the glistening spikes hanging over the children. He put the atlas downon the ground and began to try the skinny key in the lock, just as Count Olaf’s comradecame lumbering out of the shack.Her heart in her throat, Violet stood in front of the creature and gave it a fake smile.“Good afternoon,” she said, not knowing whether to add “sir” or “madam.” “I seem tohave gotten lost on this dock. Could you tell me the way to the Fickle Ferry?”Count Olaf’s comrade did not answer, but kept shuffling toward the orphans. Theskinny key fit into the lock but didn’t budge, and Klaus tried the thick one.“I’m sorry,” Violet said, “I didn’t hear you. Could you tell me-”Without a word the mountainous person grabbed Violet by the hair, and with one swingof its arm lifted her up over its smelly shoulder the way you might carry a backpack.Klaus couldn’t get the thick key to fit in the lock and tried the jagged one, just as theperson scooped up Sunny with its other hand and held her up, the way you might hold anice cream cone. “Klaus!” Violet screamed. “Klaus!” The jagged key wouldn’t fit in thelock, either. Klaus, in frustration, shook and shook the metal gate. Violet was kicking thecreature from behind, and Sunny was biting its wrist, but the person was soBrobdingnagian-a word which here means “unbelievably husky”-that the children werecausing it minimal pain, a phrase which here means “no pain at all.” Count Olaf’scomrade lumbered toward Klaus, holding the other two orphans in its grasp. Indesperation, Klaus tried the skinny key again in the lock, and to his surprise and relief itturned and the tall metal gate swung open. Just a few feet away were six sailboats tied tothe end of the dock with thick rope-sailboats that could take them to Aunt Josephine. ButKlaus was too late. He felt something grab the back of his shirt, and he was lifted up in theair. Something slimy began running down his back, and Klaus realized with horror that theperson was holding him in his or her mouth.“Put me down!” Klaus screamed. “Put me down!”“Put me down!” Violet yelled. “Put me down!”“Poda rish!” Sunny shrieked. “Poda rish!”But the lumbering creature had no concern for the wishes of the Baudelaire orphans.With great sloppy steps it turned itself around and began to carry the youngsters backtoward the shack. The children heard the gloppy sound of its chubby feet sloshing throughthe rain, gumsh , gumsh, gumsh, gumsh. But then, instead of a gumsh , there was a skittlewat as the person stepped on Aunt Josephine’s atlas, which slipped from under its feet.Count Olaf’s comrade waved its arms to keep its balance, dropping Violet and Sunny, andthen fell to the ground, opening its mouth in surprise and dropping Klaus. The orphans,being in reasonably good physical shape, got to their feet much more quickly than thisdespicable creature, and ran through the open gate to the nearest sailboat. The creaturestruggled to right itself and chase them, but Sunny had already bitten the rope that tied theboat to the dock. By the time the creature reached the spiky metal gate, the orphans werealready on the stormy waters of Lake Lachrymose . In the dim light of the late afternoon,Klaus wiped the grime of the creature’s foot off the cover of the atlas, and began to read it.Aunt Josephine’s book of maps had saved them once, in showing them the location ofCurdled Cave , and now it had saved them again.please allow me to give you a piece of advice, even though I don’t know anything aboutyou. The piece of advice is as follows: If you ever need to get to Curdled Cave in a hurry,do not, under any circumstances, steal a boat and attempt to sail across Lake Lachrymoseduring a hurricane, because it is very dangerous and the chances of your survival arepractically zero. You should especially not do this if, like the Baudelaire orphans, youhave only a vague idea of how to work a sailboat.Count Olaf’s comrade, standing at the dock and waving a chubby fist in the air, grewsmaller and smaller as the wind carried the sailboat away from Damocles Dock. AsHurricane Herman raged over them, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny examined the sailboat theyhad just stolen. It was fairly small, with wooden seats and bright orange life jackets forfive people. On top of the mast, which is a word meaning “the tall wooden post found inthe middle of boats,” was a grimy white sail controlled by a series of ropes, and on thefloor was a pair of wooden oars in case there was no wind. In the back, there was a sort ofwooden lever with a handle for moving it this way and that, and under one of the seats wasa shiny metal bucket for bailing out any water in case of a leak. There was also a long polewith a fishing net at the end of it, a small fishing rod with a sharp hook and a rusty spyingglass, which is a sort of telescope used for navigating. The three siblings struggled intotheir life vests as the stormy waves of Lake Lachrymose took them farther and fartheraway from the shore.“I read a book about working a sailboat,” Klaus shouted over the noise of the hurricane.“We have to use the sail to catch the wind. Then it will push us where we want to go.”“And this lever is called a tiller,” Violet shouted. “I remember it from studying somenaval blueprints. The tiller controls the rudder, which is below the water, steering the ship.Sunny, sit in back and work the tiller. Klaus, hold the atlas so we can tell where we’regoing, and I’ll try to work the sail. I think if I pull on this rope, I can control the sail.”Klaus turned the damp pages of the atlas to page 104. “That way,” he called, pointing tothe right. “The sun is setting over there, so that must be west.”Sunny scurried to the back of the sailboat and put her tiny hands on the tiller just as awave hit the boat and sprayed her with foam. “Karg tern!” she called, which meantsomething along the lines of “I’m going to move the tiller this way, in order to steer theboat according to Klaus’s recommendation.”The rain whipped around them, and the wind howled, and a small wave splashed overthe side, but to the orphans’ amazement, the sailboat moved in the exact direction theywanted it to go. If you had come across the three Baudelaires at this moment, you wouldhave thought their lives were filled with joy and happiness, because even though theywere exhausted, damp, and in very great danger, they began to laugh in their triumph.They were so relieved that something had finally gone right that they laughed as if theywere at the circus instead of in the middle of a lake, in the middle of a hurricane, in themiddle of trouble.As the storm wore itself out splashing waves over the sailboat and flashing lightningover their heads, the Baudelaires sailed the tiny boat across the vast and dark lake. Violetpulled ropes this way and that to catch the wind, which kept changing direction as windtends to do. Klaus kept a close eye on the atlas and made sure they weren’t heading offcourse to the Wicked Whirlpool or the Rancorous Rocks. And Sunny kept the boat levelby turning the tiller whenever Violet signaled. And just when the evening turned to night,and it was too dark to read the atlas, the Baudelaires saw a blinking light of pale purple.The orphans had always thought lavender was a rather sickly color, but for the first time intheir lives they were glad to see it. It meant that the sailboat was approaching the LavenderLighthouse, and soon they’d be at Curdled Cave . The storm finally broke-the word“broke” here means “ended,” rather than “shattered” or “lost all its money”-and the cloudsparted to reveal an almost-full moon. The children shivered in their soaking clothes andstared out at the calming waves of the lake, watching the swirls of its inky depths.“Lake Lachrymose is actually very pretty,” Klaus said thoughtfully. “I never noticed itbefore.”“Cind,” Sunny agreed, adjusting the tiller slightly.“I guess we never noticed it because of Aunt Josephine,” Violet said. “We got used tolooking at the lake through her eyes.” She picked up the spying glass and squinted into it,and she was just able to see the shore. “I think I can see the lighthouse over there. There’sa dark hole in the cliff right next to it. It must be the mouth of Curdled Cave .”Sure enough, as the sailboat drew closer and closer, the children could just make out theLavender Lighthouse and the mouth of the nearby cave, but when they looked into itsdepths, they could see no sign of Aunt Josephine, or of anything else for that matter.Rocks began to scrape the bottom of the boat, which meant they were in very shallowwater, and Violet jumped out to drag the sailboat onto the craggy shore. Klaus and Sunnystepped out of the boat and took off their life jackets. Then they stood at the mouth ofCurdled Cave and paused nervously. In front of the cave there was a sign saying it was forsale, and the orphans could not imagine who would want to buy such a phantasmagoricalthe word “phantasmagorical” here means “all the creepy, scary words you can think of puttogether”-place. The mouth of the cave had jagged rocks all over it like teeth in the mouthof a shark. Just beyond the entrance the youngsters could see strange white rockformations, all melted and twisted together so they looked like moldy milk. The floor ofthe cave was as pale and dusty as if it were made of chalk. But it was not these sights thatmade the children pause. It was the sound coming out of the cave. It was a high-pitched,wavering wail, a hopeless and lost sound, as strange and as eerie as Curdled Cave itself.“What is that sound?” Violet asked nervously.“Just the wind, probably,” Klaus replied. “I read somewhere that when wind passesthrough small spaces, like caves, it can make weird noises. It’s nothing to be afraid of.”The orphans did not move. The sound did not stop.“I’m afraid of it, anyway,” Violet said.“Me too,” Klaus said.“Geni,” Sunny said, and began to crawl into the mouth of the cave. She probably meantsomething along the lines of “We didn’t sail a stolen sailboat across Lake Lachrymose inthe middle of Hurricane Herman just to stand nervously at the mouth of a cave,” and hersiblings had to agree with her and follow her inside. The wailing was louder as it echoedoff the walls and rock formations, and the Baudelaires could tell it wasn’t the wind. It wasAunt Josephine, sitting in a corner of the cave and sobbing with her head in her hands. Shewas crying so hard that she hadn’t even noticed the Baudelaires come into the cave.“Aunt Josephine,” Klaus said hesitantly, “we’re here.”Aunt Josephine looked up, and the children could see that her face was wet from tearsand chalky from the cave. “You figured it out,” she said, wiping her eyes and standing up.“I knew you could figure it out,” she said, and took each of the Baudelaires in her arms.She looked at Violet, and then at Klaus, and then at Sunny, and the orphans looked at herand found themselves with tears in their own eyes as they greeted their guardian. It was asif they had not quite believed that Aunt Josephine’s death was fake until they had seen heralive with their own eyes.“I knew you were clever children,” Aunt Josephine said. “I knew you would read mymessage.”“Klaus really did it,” Violet said.“But Violet knew how to work the sailboat,” Klaus said. “Without Violet we neverwould have arrived here.”“And Sunny stole the keys,” Violet said, “and worked the tiller.”“Well, I’m glad you all made it here,” Aunt Josephine said. “Let me just catch mybreath and I’ll help you bring in your things.”The children looked at one another. “What things?” Violet asked.“Why, your luggage of course,” Aunt Josephine replied. “And I hope you brought somefood, because the supplies I brought are almost gone.”“We didn’t bring any food,” Klaus said.“No food?” Aunt Josephine said. “How in the world are you going to live with me inthis cave if you didn’t bring any food?”“We didn’t come here to live with you,” Violet said.Aunt Josephine’s hands flew to her head and she rearranged her bun nervously. “Thenwhy are you here?” she asked.“Stim!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Because we were worried about you!”“‘Stim’ is not a sentence, Sunny,” Aunt Josephine said sternly. “Perhaps one of yourolder siblings could explain in correct English why you’re here.”“Because Captain Sham almost had us in his clutches!” Violet cried. “Everyone thoughtyou were dead, and you wrote in your will and testament that we should be placed in thecare of Captain Sham.”“But he forced me to do that,” Aunt Josephine whined. “That night, when he called meon the phone, he told me he was really Count Olaf. He said I had to write out a will sayingyou children would be left in his care. He said if I didn’t write what he said, he woulddrown me in the lake. I was so frightened that I agreed immediately.”“Why didn’t you call the police?” Violet asked. “Why didn’t you call Mr. Poe? Whydidn’t you call somebody who could have helped?”“You know why,” Aunt Josephine said crossly. “I’m afraid of using the phone. Why, Iwas just getting used to answering it. I’m nowhere near ready to use the numberedbuttons. But in any case, I didn’t need to call anybody. I threw a footstool through thewindow and then sneaked out of the house. I left you the note so that you would know Iwasn’t really dead, but I hid my message so that Captain Sham wouldn’t know I hadescaped from him.”“Why didn’t you take us with you? Why did you leave us all alone by ourselves? Whydidn’t you protect us from Captain Sham?” Klaus asked.“It is not grammatically correct,” Aunt Josephine said, “to say ‘leave us all alone byourselves.’ You can say ‘leave us all alone,’ or ‘leave us by ourselves,’ but not both. Doyou understand?”The Baudelaires looked at one another in sadness and anger. They understood. Theyunderstood that Aunt Josephine was more concerned with grammatical mistakes than withsaving the lives of the three children. They understood that she was so wrapped up in herown fears that she had not given a thought to what might have happened to them. Theyunderstood that Aunt Josephine had been a terrible guardian, in leaving the children all bythemselves in great danger. They understood and they wished more than ever that theirparents, who never would have run away and left them alone, had not been killed in thatterrible fire which had begun all the misfortune in the Baudelaire lives.“Well, enough grammar lessons for today,” Aunt Josephine said. “I’m happy to see you,and you are welcome to share this cave with me. I don’t think Captain Sham will ever findus here.”“We’re not staying here” Violet said impatiently.”We’re sailing back to town, and we’retaking you with us.”“No way, Jose,” Aunt Josephine said, using an expression which means “No way” andhas nothing to do with Jose, whoever he is. “I’m too frightened of Captain Sham to facehim. After all he’s done to you I would think that you would be frightened of him, too.”“We are frightened of him,” Klaus said, “but if we prove that he’s really Count Olaf hewill go to jail. You are the proof. If you tell Mr. Poe what happened, then Count Olaf willbe locked away and we will be safe.”“You can tell him, if you want to,” Aunt Josephine said. “I’m staying here.”“He won’t believe us unless you come with us and prove that you’re alive,” Violet said.“No, no, no,” Aunt Josephine said. “I’m too afraid.”Violet took a deep breath and faced her frightened guardian. “We’re all afraid,” she saidfirmly. “We were afraid when we met Captain Sham in the grocery store. We were afraidwhen we thought that you had jumped out the window. We were afraid to give ourselvesallergic reactions, and we were afraid to steal a sailboat and we were afraid to make ourway across this lake in the middle of a hurricane. But that didn’t stop us.”Aunt Josephine’s eyes filled up with tears. “I can’t help it that you’re braver than I,” shesaid. “I’m not sailing across that lake. I’m not making any phone calls. I’m going to stayright here for the rest of my life, and nothing you can say will change my mind.”Klaus stepped forward and played his trump card, a phrase which means “saidsomething very convincing, which he had saved for the end of the argument.” “CurdledCave,” he said, “is for sale.”“So what?” Aunt Josephine said.“That means,” Klaus said, “that before long certain people will come to look at it. Andsome of those people”-he paused here dramatically-“will be realtors.”Aunt Josephine’s mouth hung open, and the orphans watched her pale throat swallow infear. “Okay,” she said finally, looking around the cave anxiously as if a realtor werealready hiding in the shadows. “I’ll go.”wearing two life jackets instead of one, and every few seconds she cried “Oh no,” eventhough nothing frightening was happening.“Oh no,” Aunt Josephine said, “and I mean it this time.”“What’s wrong, Aunt Josephine?” Violet said tiredly. The sailboat had reached theapproximate middle of the lake. The water was still fairly calm, and the lighthouse stillglowed, a pinpoint of pale purple light. There seemed to be no cause for alarm.“We’re about to enter the territory of the Lachrymose Leeches,” Aunt Josephine said.“I’m sure we’ll pass through safely,” Klaus said, peering through the spying glassto see if Damocles Dock was visible yet. “You told us that the leeches were harmless andonly preyed on small fish.”“Unless you’ve eaten recently,” Aunt Josephine said.“But it’s been hours since we’ve eaten,” Violet said soothingly. “The last thing we atewere peppermints at the Anxious Clown. That was in the afternoon, and now it’s themiddle of the night.”Aunt Josephine looked down, and moved away from the side of the boat. “But I ate abanana,” she whispered, “just before you arrived.”“Oh no,” Violet said. Sunny stopped moving the tiller and looked worriedly into thewater.“I’m sure there’s nothing to worry about,” Klaus said. “Leeches are very small animals.If we were in the water, we might have reason to fear, but I don’t think they’d attack asailboat. Plus, Hurricane Herman may have frightened them away from their territory. Ibet the Lachrymose Leeches won’t even show up.”Klaus thought he was done speaking for the moment, but in the moment that followedhe added one more sentence. The sentence was “Speak of the Devil,” and it is anexpression that you use when you are talking about something only to have it occur. Forinstance, if you were at a picnic and said, “I hope it doesn’t snow,” and at that very minutea blizzard began, you could say, “Speak of the Devil” before gathering up your blanketand potato salad and driving away to a good restaurant. But in the case of the Baudelaireorphans, I’m sure you can guess what happened to prompt Klaus to use this expression.“Speak of the Devil,” Klaus said, looking into the waters of the lake. Out of theswirling blackness came skinny, rising shapes, barely visible in the moonlight. The shapeswere scarcely longer than a finger, and at first it looked as if someone were swimming inthe lake and drumming their fingers on the surface of the water. But most people haveonly ten fingers, and in the few minutes that followed there were hundreds of these tinyshapes, wriggling hungrily from all sides toward the sailboat. The Lachrymose Leechesmade a quiet, whispering sound on the water as they swam, as if the Baudelaire orphanswere surrounded by people murmuring terrible secrets. The children watched in silence asthe swarm approached the boat, each leech knocking lightly against the wood. Their tinyleech-mouths puckered in disappointment as they tried to taste the sailboat. Leeches areblind, but they aren’t stupid, and the Lachrymose Leeches knew that they were not eatinga banana.“You see?” Klaus said nervously, as the tapping of leech-mouths continued. “We’reperfectly safe.”“Yes,” Violet said. She wasn’t sure they were perfectly safe, not at all, but it seemedbest to tell Aunt Josephine they were perfectly safe. “We’re perfectly safe,” she said.The tapping sound continued, getting a little rougher and louder. Frustration is aninteresting emotional state, because it tends to bring out the worst in whoever is frustrated.Frustrated babies tend to throw food and make a mess. Frustrated citizens tend to executekings and queens and make a democracy. And frustrated moths tend to bang up againstlightbulbs and make light fixtures all dusty. But unlike babies, citizens, and moths, leechesare quite unpleasant to begin with. Now that the Lachrymose Leeches were gettingfrustrated, everyone on board the sailboat was quite anxious to see what would happenwhen frustration brought out the worst in leeches. For a while, the small creatures triedand tried to eat the wood, but their tiny teeth didn’t really do anything but make anunpleasant knocking sound. But then, all at once, the leeches knocked off, and theBaudelaires watched them wriggle away from the sailboat.“They’re leaving,” Klaus said hopefully, but they weren’t leaving. When the leecheshad reached a considerable distance, they suddenly swiveled their tiny bodies around andcame rushing back to the boat. With a loud thwack! the leeches all hit the boat more orless at once, and the sailboat rocked precariously, a word which here means “in a waywhich almost threw Aunt Josephine and the Baudelaire youngsters to their doom.” Thefour passengers were rocked to and fro and almost fell into the waters of the lake, wherethe leeches were wriggling away again to prepare for another attack.“Yadec!” Sunny shrieked and pointed at the side of the boat. Yadec, of course, is notgrammatically correct English, but even Aunt Josephine understood that the youngestBaudelaire meant “Look at the crack in the boat that the leeches have made!” The crackwas a tiny one, about as long as a pencil and about as wide as a human hair, and it wascurved downward so it looked as if the sailboat were frowning at them. If the leeches kepthitting the side of the boat, the frown would only get wider.“We have to sail much faster,” Klaus said, “or this boat will be in pieces in no time.”“But sailing relies on the wind,” Violet pointed out. “We can’t make the wind gofaster.”“I’m frightened!” Aunt Josephine cried. “Please don’t throw me overboard!”“Nobody’s going to throw you overboard,” Violet said impatiently, although I’m sorryto tell you that Violet was wrong about that. “Take an oar, Aunt Josephine. Klaus, take theother one. If we use the sail, the tiller, and the oars we should move more quickly.”Thwack! The Lachrymose Leeches hit the side of the boat, widening the crack in theside and rocking the boat again. One of the leeches was thrown over the side in the impact,and twisted this way and that on the floor of the boat, gnashing its tiny teeth as it lookedfor food. Grimacing, Klaus walked cautiously over to it and tried to kick the leechoverboard, but it clung onto his shoe and began gnawing through the leather. With a cry ofdisgust, Klaus shook his leg, and the leech fell to the floor of the sailboat again, stretchingits tiny neck and opening and shutting its mouth. Violet grabbed the long pole with the netat the end of it, scooped up the leech, and tossed it overboard.Thwack! The crack widened enough that a bit of water began to dribble through,making a small puddle on the sailboat’s floor. “Sunny,” Violet said, “keep an eye on thatpuddle. When it gets bigger, use the bucket to throw it back in the lake.”“Mofee!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “I certainly will.” There was the whisperingsound as the leeches swam away to ram the boat again. Klaus and Aunt Josephine beganrowing as hard as they could, while Violet adjusted the sail and kept the net in her hand forany more leeches who got on board.Thwack! Thwack! There were two loud noises now, one on the side of the boat and oneon the bottom, which cracked immediately. The leeches had divided up into two teams,which is good news for playing kickball but bad news if you are being attacked. AuntJosephine gave a shriek of terror. Water was now leaking into the sailboat in two spots,and Sunny abandoned the tiller to bail the water back out. Klaus stopped rowing, and heldthe oar up without a word. It had several small bite marks in it-the work of theLachrymose Leeches.“Rowing isn’t going to work,” he reported to Violet solemnly. “If we row any morethese oars will be completely eaten.”Violet watched Sunny crawl around with the bucket full of water. “Rowing won’t helpus, anyway,” she said. “This boat is sinking. We need help.”Klaus looked around at the dark and still waters, empty except for the sailboat andswarms of leeches. “Where can we get help in the middle of a lake?” he asked.“We’re going to have to signal for help,” Violet said, and reached into her pocket andtook out a ribbon. Handing Klaus the fishing net, she used the ribbon to tie her hair up,keeping it out of her eyes. Klaus and Sunny watched her, knowing that she only tied herhair up this way when she was thinking of an invention, and right now they needed aninvention quite desperately.“That’s right,” Aunt Josephine said to Violet, “close your eyes. That’s what I do whenI’m afraid, and it always makes me feel better to block out the fear.”“She’s not blocking out anything,” Klaus said crossly. “She’s concentrating.”Klaus was right. Violet concentrated as hard as she could, racking her brain for a goodway to signal for help. She thought of fire alarms. With flashing lights and loud sirens, firealarms were an excellent way to signal for assistance. Although the Baudelaire orphans, ofcourse, sadly knew that sometimes the fire engines arrived too late to save people’s lives, afire alarm was still a good invention, and Violet tried to think of a way she could imitate itusing the materials around her. She needed to make a loud sound, to get somebody’sattention. And she needed to make a bright light, so that person would know where theywere.Thwack! Thwack! The two teams of leeches hit the boat again, and there was a splashas more water came pouring into the sailboat. Sunny started to fill the bucket with water,but Violet reached forward and took it from Sunny’s hands. “Bero?” Sunny shrieked,which meant “Are you crazy?” but Violet had no time to answer “No, as a matter of factI’m not.” So she merely said “No,” and, holding the bucket in one hand, began to climb upthe mast. It is difficult enough to climb up the mast of a boat, but it is triple the difficulty ifthe boat is being rocked by a bunch of hungry leeches, so allow me to advise you that thisis another thing that you should under no circumstances try to do. But Violet Baudelairewas a wunderkind, a German word which here means “someone who is able to quicklyclimb masts on boats being attacked by leeches,” and soon she was on the top of theswaying mast of the boat. She took the bucket and hung it by its handle on the tip of themast so it swung this way and that, the way a bell might do in a bell tower.“I don’t mean to interrupt you,” Klaus called, scooping up a furious leech in the net andtossing it as far as he could, “but this boat is really sinking. Please hurry.”Violet hurried. Hurriedly, she grabbed ahold of a corner of the sail and, taking a deepbreath to prepare herself, jumped back down to the floor of the boat. Just as she hadhoped, the sail ripped as she hurtled to the ground, slowing her down and leaving her witha large piece of torn cloth. By now the sailboat had quite a lot of water in it, and Violetsplashed over to Aunt Josephine, avoiding the many leeches that Klaus was tossing out ofthe boat as quickly as he could.“I need your oar,” Violet said, wadding the piece of sail up into a ball, “and yourhairnet.”“You can have the oar,” Aunt Josephine said, handing it over. “But I need my hairnet. Itkeeps my bun in place.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 3- TheWide Window“Give her the hairnet!” Klaus cried, hopping up on one of the seats as a leech tried tobite his knee.“But I’m scared of having hair in my face,” Aunt Josephine whined, just as another pairof thwack!s hit the boat.“I don’t have time to argue with you!” Violet cried. “I’m trying to save each of ourlives! Give me your hairnet right now!”“The expression,” Aunt Josephine said, “is saving all of our lives, not each of our lives”but Violet had heard enough. Splashing forward and avoiding a pair of wriggling leeches,the eldest Baudelaire reached forward and grabbed Aunt Josephine’s hairnet off of herhead. She wrapped the crumpled part of the sail in the hairnet, and then grabbed thefishing pole and attached the messy ball of cloth to the fishhook. It looked like she wasabout to go fishing for some kind of fish that liked sailboats and hair accessories for food.Thwack! Thwack! The sailboat tilted to one side and then to the other. The leeches hadalmost smashed their way through the side. Violet took the oar and began to rub it up anddown the side of the boat as fast and as hard as she could.“What are you doing?” Klaus asked, catching three leeches in one swoop of hisnet.“I’m trying to create friction,” Violet said. “If I rub two pieces of wood enough, I’llcreate friction. Friction creates sparks. When I get a spark, I’ll set the cloth and hairnet onfire and use it as a signal.”“You want to set a fire?” Klaus cried. “But a fire will mean more danger.”“Not if I wave the fire over my head, using the fishing pole,” Violet said. “I’ll do that,and hit the bucket like a bell, and that should create enough of a signal to fetch us somehelp.” She rubbed and rubbed the oar against the side of the boat, but no sparks appeared.The sad truth was that the wood was too wet from Hurricane Herman and from LakeLachrymose to create enough friction to start a fire. It was a good idea, but Violet realized,as she rubbed and rubbed without any result, that it was the wrong idea.Thwack! Thwack! Violet looked around at Aunt Josephine and her terrified siblings andfelt hope leak out of her heart as quickly as water was leaking into the boat. “It’s notworking,” Violet said miserably, and felt tears fall down her cheeks. She thought of thepromise she made to her parents, shortly before they were killed, that she would alwaystake care of her younger siblings. The leeches swarmed around the sinking boat, andViolet feared that she had not lived up to her promise. “It’s not working,” she said again,and dropped the oar in despair. “We need a fire, but I can’t invent one.”“It’s okay,” Klaus said, even though of course it was not. “We’ll think of something.”“Tintet,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “Don’t cry. You triedyour best,” but Violet cried anyway. It is very easy to say that the important thing is to tryyour best, but if you are in real trouble the most important thing is not trying your best, butgetting to safety. The boat rocked back and forth, and water poured through the cracks,and Violet cried because it looked like they would never get to safety. Her shouldersshaking with sobs, she held the spying glass up to her eye to see if, by any chance, therewas a boat nearby, or if the tide had happened to carry the sailboat to shore, but all shecould see was the moonlight reflecting on the rippling waters of the lake. And this was alucky thing. Because as soon as Violet saw the flickering reflection, she remembered thescientific principles of the convergence and refraction of light.The scientific principles of the convergence and refraction of light are very confusing,and quite frankly I can’t make head or tail of them, even when my friend Dr. Lorenzexplains them to me. But they made perfect sense to Violet. Instantly, she thought of astory her father had told her, long ago, when she was just beginning to be interested inscience. When her father was a boy, he’d had a dreadful cousin who liked to burn ants,starting a fire by focusing the light of the sun with her magnifying glass. Burning ants, ofcourse, is an abhorrent hobby-the word “abhorrent” here means “what Count Olaf used todo when he was about your age”-but remembering the story made Violet see that shecould use the lens of the spying glass to focus the light of the moon and make a fire.Without wasting another moment, she grabbed the spying glass and removed the lens, andthen, looking up at the moon, tilted the lens at an angle she hastily computed in her head.The moonlight passed through the lens and was concentrated into a long, thin band oflight, like a glowing thread leading right to the piece of sail, held in a ball by AuntJosephine’s hairnet. In a moment the thread had become a small flame.“It’s miraculous!” Klaus cried, as the flame took hold.“It’s unbelievable!” Aunt Josephine cried.“Fonti!” Sunny shrieked.“It’s the scientific principles of the convergence and refraction of light!” Violet cried,wiping her eyes. Stepping carefully to avoid onboard leeches and so as not to put out thefire, she moved to the front of the boat. With one hand, she took the oar and rang thebucket, making a loud sound to get somebody’s attention. With the other hand, she heldthe fishing rod up high, making a bright light so the person would know where they were.Violet looked up at her homemade signaling device that had finally caught fire, all becauseof a silly story her father had told her. Her father’s ant-burning cousin sounded like adreadful person, but if she had suddenly appeared on the sailboat Violet would have givenher a big grateful hug.As it turned out, however, this signal was a mixed blessing, a phrase which means“something half good and half bad.” Somebody saw the signal almost immediately,somebody who was already sailing in the lake, and who headed toward the Baudelaires inan instant. Violet, Klaus, Sunny, and even Aunt Josephine all grinned as they saw anotherboat sail into view. They were being rescued, and that was the good half. But their smilesbegan to fade as the boat drew closer and they saw who was sailing it. Aunt Josephine andthe orphans saw the wooden peg leg, and the navy-blue sailor cap, and the eye patch, andthey knew who was coming to their aid. It was Captain Sham, of course, and he wasprobably the worst half in the world.thing ,“ Aunt Josephine said sourly. ”But these children came and got me.”Captain Sham smiled. He had expertly steered his sailboat so it was alongside the onethe Baudelaires had stolen, and Aunt Josephine and the children had stepped over theswarming leeches to come aboard. With a gurgly whoosh! their own sailboat wasoverwhelmed with water and quickly sank into the depths of the lake. The LachrymoseLeeches swarmed around the sinking sailboat, gnashing their tiny teeth. “Aren’t you goingto say thank you, orphans?” Captain Sham asked, pointing to the swirling place in the lakewhere their sailboat had been. “If it weren’t for me, all of you would be divided up into thestomachs of those leeches.”“If it weren’t for you,” Violet said fiercely, “we wouldn’t be in Lake Lachrymose tobegin with.”“You can blame that on the old woman,” he said, pointing to Aunt Josephine. “Fakingyour own death was pretty clever, but not clever enough. The Baudelaire fortune-and,unfortunately, the brats who come with it-now belong to me.”“Don’t be ridiculous,” Klaus said. “We don’t belong to you and we never will. Once wetell Mr. Poe what happened he will send you to jail.”“Is that so?” Captain Sham said, turning the sailboat around and sailing towardDamocles Dock. His one visible eye was shining brightly as if he were telling a joke. “Mr.Poe will send me to jail, eh? Why, Mr. Poe is putting finishing touches on your adoptionpapers this very moment. In a few hours, you orphans will be Violet, Klaus, and SunnySham.”“Neihab!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “I’m Sunny Baudelaire, and I will always beSunny Baudelaire unless I decide for myself to legally change my name!”“When we explain that you forced Aunt Josephine to write that note,” Violet said, “Mr.Poe will rip up those adoption papers into a thousand pieces.”“Mr. Poe won’t believe you,” Captain Sham said, chuckling. “Why should he believethree runaway pipsqueaks who go around stealing boats?”“Because we’re telling the truth!” Klaus cried.“Truth, schmuth,” Captain Sham said. If you don’t care about something, one way todemonstrate your feelings is to say the word and then repeat the word with the letters S-CH-M replacing the real first letters. Somebody who didn’t care about dentists, for instance,could say “Dentists, schmentists.” But only a despicable person like Captain Shamwouldn’t care about the truth. “Truth, schmuth,” he said again. “I think Mr. Poe is morelikely to believe the owner of a respectable sailboat rental place, who went out in themiddle of a hurricane to rescue three ungrateful boat thieves.”“We only stole the boat,” Violet said, “to retrieve Aunt Josephine from her hiding placeso she could tell everyone about your terrible plan.”“But nobody will believe the old woman, either,” Captain Sham said impatiently.“Nobody believes a dead woman.”“Are you blind in both eyes?” Klaus asked. “Aunt Josephine isn’t dead!”Captain Sham smiled again, and looked out at the lake. Just a few yards away the waterwas rippling as the Lachrymose Leeches swam toward Captain Sham’s sailboat. Aftersearching every inch of the Baudelaires’ boat and failing to find any food, the leeches hadrealized they had been tricked and were once again following the scent of banana stilllingering on Aunt Josephine.“She’s not dead yet” Captain Sham said, in a terrible voice, and took a step toward her.“Oh no,” she said. Her eyes were wide with fear. “Don’t throw me overboard,” shepleaded. “Please!”“You’re not going to reveal my plan to Mr. Poe,” Captain Sham said, taking anotherstep toward the terrified woman, “because you will be joining your beloved Ike at thebottom of the lake.”“No she won’t,” Violet said, grabbing a rope. “I will steer us to shore before you can doanything about it.”“I’ll help,” Klaus said, running to the back and grabbing the tiller.“Igal!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “And I’ll guard AuntJosephine.” She crawled in front of the Baude-laires’ guardian and bared her teeth atCaptain Sham.“I promise not to say anything to Mr. Poe!” Aunt Josephine said desperately. “I’ll gosomeplace and hide away, and never show my face! You can tell him I’m dead! You canhave the fortune! You can have the children! Just don’t throw me to the leeches!”The Baudelaires looked at their guardian in horror. “You’re supposed to be caring forus,” Violet told Aunt Josephine in astonishment, “not putting us up for grabs!”Captain Sham paused, and seemed to consider Aunt Josephine’s offer. “You have apoint,” he said. “I don’t necessarily have to kill you. People just have to think that you’redead.”“I’ll change my name!” Aunt Josephine said. “I’ll dye my hair! I’ll wear coloredcontact lenses! And I’ll go very, very far away! Nobody will ever hear from me!”“But what about us, Aunt Josephine?” Klaus asked in horror. “What about us?”“Be quiet, orphan,” Captain Sham snapped. The Lachrymose Leeches reached thesailboat and began tapping on the wooden side. “The adults are talking. Now, old woman,I wish I could believe you. But you hadn’t been a very trustworthy person.”“Haven’t been,” Aunt Josephine corrected, wiping a tear from her eye.“What?” Captain Sham asked.“You made a grammatical error,” Aunt Josephine said. “You said ‘But you hadn’t beena very trustworthy person,’ but you should have said, ‘you haven’t been a very trustworthyperson.’”Captain Sham’s one shiny eye blinked, and his mouth curled up in a terrible smile.“Thank you for pointing that out,” he said, and took one last step toward Aunt Josephine.Sunny growled at him, and he looked down and in one swift gesture moved his peg legand knocked Sunny to the other end of his boat. “Let me make sure I completelyunderstand the grammatical lesson,” he said to the Baudelaires’ trembling guardian, as ifnothing had happened. “You wouldn’t say ‘Josephine Anwhistle had been thrownoverboard to the leeches,’ because that would be incorrect. But if you said ‘JosephineAnwhistle has been thrown overboard to the leeches,’ that would be all right with you.”“Yes,” Aunt Josephine said. “I mean no. I mean-”But Aunt Josephine never got to say what she meant. Captain Sham faced her and,using both hands, pushed her over the side of the boat. With a little gasp and a big splashshe fell into the waters of Lake Lachrymose .“Aunt Josephine!” Violet cried. “Aunt Josephine!”Klaus leaned over the side of the boat and stretched his hand out as far as he could.Thanks to her two life jackets, Aunt Josephine was floating on top of the water, wavingher hands in the air as the leeches swam toward her. But Captain Sham was alreadypulling at the ropes of the sail, and Klaus couldn’t reach her. “You fiend!” he shouted atCaptain Sham. “You evil fiend!”“That’s no way to talk to your father,” Captain Sham said calmly.Violet tried to tug a rope out of Captain Sham’s hand. “Move the sailboat back!” sheshouted. “Turn the boat around!”“Not a chance,” he replied smoothly. “Wave good-bye to the old woman, orphans.You’ll never see her again.”Klaus leaned over as far as he could. “Don’t worry, Aunt Josephine!” he called, but hisvoice revealed that he was very worried himself. The boat was already quite a ways fromAunt Josephine, and the orphans could only see the white of her hands as she waved themover the dark water.“She has a chance,” Violet said quietly to Klaus as they sailed toward the dock. “Shehas those life jackets, and she’s a strong swimmer.”“That’s true,” Klaus said, his voice shaky and sad. “She’s lived by the lake her wholelife. Maybe she knows of an escape route.”“Legru,” Sunny said quietly, which meant “All we can do is hope.”The three orphans huddled together, shivering in cold and fear, as Captain Sham sailedthe boat by himself. They didn’t dare do anything but hope. Their feelings for AuntJosephine were all a tumble in their minds. The Baudelaires had not really enjoyed mostof their time with her not because she cooked horrible cold meals, or chose presents forthem that they didn’t like, or always corrected the children’s grammar, but because shewas so afraid of everything that she made it impossible to really enjoy anything at all. Andthe worst of it was, Aunt Josephine’s fear had made her a bad guardian. A guardian issupposed to stay with children and keep them safe, but Aunt Josephine had run away atthe first sign of danger. A guardian is supposed to help children in times of trouble, butAunt Josephine practically had to be dragged out of the Curdled Cave when they neededher. And a guardian is supposed to protect children from danger, but Aunt Josephine hadoffered the orphans to Captain Sham in exchange for her own safety.But despite all of Aunt Josephine’s faults, the orphans still cared about her. She hadtaught them many things, even if most of them were boring. She had provided a home,even if it was cold and unable to withstand hurricanes. And the children knew that AuntJosephine, like the Baudelaires themselves, had experienced some terrible things in herlife. So as their guardian faded from view and the lights of Damocles Dock approachedcloser and closer, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not think “Josephine, schmosephine.”They thought “We hope Aunt Josephine is safe.”Captain Sham sailed the boat right up to the shore and tied it expertly to the dock.“Come along, little idiots,” he said, and led the Baudelaires to the tall metal gate with theglistening spikes on top, where Mr. Poe was waiting with his handkerchief in his hand anda look of relief on his face. Next to Mr. Poe was the Brobdingnagian creature, who gazedat them with a triumphant expression on his or her face.“You’re safe!” Mr. Poe said. “Thank goodness! We were so worried about you! WhenCaptain Sham and I reached the An whistle home and saw that it had fallen into the sea,we thought you were done for!”“It is lucky my associate told me that they had stolen a sailboat,” Captain Sham told Mr.Poe. “The boat was nearly destroyed by Hurricane Herman, and by a swarm of leeches. Irescued them just in time.”“He did not!” Violet shouted. “He threw Aunt Josephine into the lake! We have to goand rescue her!”“The children are upset and confused,” Captain Sham said, his eye shining. “As theirfather, I think they need a good night’s sleep.”“He’s not our father!” Klaus shouted. “He’s Count Olaf, and he’s a murderer! Please,Mr. Poe, alert the police! We have to save Aunt Josephine!”“Oh, dear,” Mr. Poe said, coughing into his handkerchief. “You certainly are confused,Klaus. Aunt Josephine is dead, remember? She threw herself out the window.”“No, no,” Violet said. “Her suicide note had a secret message in it. Klaus decoded thenote and it said ‘Curdled Cave .’ Actually, it said ‘apostrophe Curdled Cave ,’ but theapostrophe was just to get our attention.”“You’re not making any sense,” Mr. Poe said. “What cave? What apostrophe?”“Klaus,” Violet said, “show Mr. Poe the note.”“You can show it to him in the morning,” Captain Sham said, in a falsely soothing tone.“You need a good night’s sleep. My associate will take you to my apartment while I stayhere and finish the adoption paperwork with Mr. Poe.”“But-” Klaus said.“But nothing,” Captain Sham said. “You’re very distraught, which means ‘upset.’”“I know what it means,” Klaus said.“Please listen to us,” Violet begged Mr. Poe. “It’s a matter of life or death. Please justtake a look at the note.”“You can show it to him,” Captain Sham said, his voice rising in anger, “in themorning. Now please follow my associate to my minivan and go straight to bed.”“Hold on a minute, Captain Sham,” Mr. Poe said. “If it upsets the children so much, I’lltake a look at the note. It will only take a moment.”“Thank you,” Klaus said in relief, and reached into his pocket for the note. But as soonas hereached inside his face fell in disappointment, and I’m sure you can guess why. Ifyou place a piece of paper in your pocket, and then soak yourself in a hurricane, the pieceof paper, no matter how important it is, will turn into a soggy mess. Klaus pulled a damplump out of his pocket, and the orphans looked at the remains of Aunt Josephine’s note.You could scarcely tell that it had been a piece of paper, let alone read the note or thesecret it contained.“This was the note,” Klaus said, holding it out to Mr. Poe. “You’ll just have to take ourword for it that Aunt Josephine was still alive.”“And she might still be alive!” Violet cried. “Please, Mr. Poe, send someone to rescueher!”“Oh my, children,” Mr. Poe said. “You’re so sad and worried. But you don’t have toworry anymore. I have always promised to provide for you, and I think Captain Sham willdo an excellent job of raising you. He has a steady business and doesn’t seem likely tothrow himself out of a window. And it’s obvious he cares for you very much-why, he wentout alone, in the middle of a hurricane, to search for you.”“The only thing he cares about,” Klaus said bitterly, “is our fortune.”“Why, that’s not true,” Captain Sham said. “I don’t want a penny of your fortune.Except, of course, to pay for the sailboat you stole and wrecked.”Mr. Poe frowned, and coughed into his handkerchief. “Well, that’s a surprising request,”he said, “but I suppose that can be arranged. Now, children, please go to your new homewhile I make the final arrangements with Captain Sham. Perhaps we’ll have time forbreakfast tomorrow before I head back to the city.”“Please, ” Violet cried. “Please, won’t you listen to us?”“Please” Klaus cried. “Please, won’t you believe us?”Sunny did not say anything. Sunny had not said anything for a long time, and if hersiblings hadn’t been so busy trying to reason with Mr. Poe, they would have noticed thatshe wasn’t even looking up to watch everyone talking. During this whole conversation,Sunny was looking straight ahead, and if you are a baby this means looking at people’slegs. The leg she was looking at was Captain Sham’s. She wasn’t looking at his right leg,which was perfectly normal, but at his peg leg. She was looking at the stump of darkpolished wood, attached to his left knee with a curved metal hinge, and concentrating veryhard.It may surprise you to learn that at this moment, Sunny resembled the famous Greekconqueror Alexander the Great. Alexander the Great lived more than two thousand yearsago, and his last name was not actually “The Great.” “The Great” was something that heforced people to call him, by bringing a bunch of soldiers into their land and proclaiminghimself king. Besides invading other people’s countries and forcing them to do whateverhe said, Alexander the Great was famous for something called the Gordian Knot. TheGordian Knot was a fancy knot tied in a piece of rope by a king named Gordius. Gordiussaid that if Alexander could untie it, he could rule the whole kingdom. But Alexander,who was too busy conquering places to learn how to untie knots, simply drew his swordand cut the Gordian Knot in two. This was cheating, of course, but Alexander had toomany soldiers for Gordius to argue, and soon everybody in Gordium had to bow down toYou-Know-Who the Great. Ever since then, a difficult problem can be called a GordianKnot, and if you solve the problem in a simple way- even if the way is rude-you arecutting the Gordian Knot.The problem the Baudelaire orphans were experiencing could certainly be called aGordian Knot, because it looked impossible to solve. The problem, of course, was thatCaptain Sham’s despicable plan was about to succeed, and the way to solve it was toconvince Mr. Poe of what was really going on. But with Aunt Josephine thrown in thelake, and her note a ruined lump of wet paper, Violet and Klaus were unable to convinceMr. Poe of anything. Sunny, however, stared at Captain Sham’s peg leg and thought of asimple, if rude, way of solving the problem. As all the taller people argued and paid noattention to Sunny, the littlest Baudelaire crawled as close as she could to the peg leg,opened her mouth and bit down as hard as she could. Luckily for the Baudelaires, Sunny’steeth were as sharp as the sword of Alexander the Great, and Captain Sham’s peg leg splitright in half with a crack! that made everybody look down.As I’m sure you’ve guessed, the peg leg was fake, and it split open to reveal CaptainSham’s real leg, pale and sweaty from knee to toes. But it was neither the knee nor thetoes that interested everyone. It was the ankle. For there on the pale and sweaty skin ofCaptain Sham was the solution to their problem. By biting the peg leg, Sunny had cut theGordian Knot, for as the wooden pieces of fake peg leg fell to the floor of DamoclesDock, everyone could see a tattoo of an eye.of his one shiny eye, he twisted his face to make it look as astonished as Mr. Poe’s.“My leg!” Count Olaf cried, in a voice of false joy. “My leg has grown back! It’samazing! It’s wonderful! It’s a medical miracle!”“Oh come now,” Mr. Poe said, folding his arms. “That won’t work. Even a child can seethat your peg leg was false.”“A child did see it,” Violet whispered to Klaus. “Three children, in fact.”“Well, maybe the peg leg was false,” Count Olaf admitted, and took a step backward.“But I’ve never seen this tattoo in my life.”“Oh come now,” Mr. Poe said again. “That won’t work, either. You tried to hide thetattoo with the peg leg, but now we can see that you are really Count Olaf.”“Well, maybe the tattoo is mine,” Count Olaf admitted, and took another step backward.“But I’m not this Count Olaf person. I’m Captain Sham. See, I have a business card herethat says so.”“Oh come now,” Mr. Poe said yet again. “That won’t work. Anyone can go to a printshop and have cards made that say anything they like.”“Well, maybe I’m not Captain Sham,” Count Olaf admitted, “but the children stillbelong to me. Josephine said that they did.”“Oh come now,” Mr. Poe said for the fourth and final time. “That won’t work. AuntJosephine left the children to Captain Sham, not to Count Olaf. And you are Count Olaf,not Captain Sham. So it is once again up to me to decide who will care for theBaudelaires. I will send these three youngsters somewhere else, and I will send you to jail.You have performed your evil deeds for the last time, Olaf. You tried to steal theBaudelaire fortune by marrying Violet. You tried to steal the Baudelaire fortune bymurdering Uncle Monty.”“And this,” Count Olaf growled, “was my greatest plan yet.” He reached up and tore offhis eyepatch-which was fake, of course, like his peg leg-and stared at the Baudelaires withboth of his shiny eyes. “I don’t like to brag- actually, why should I lie to you foolsanymore?-I love to brag, and forcing that stupid old woman to write that note was reallysomething to brag about. What a ninny Josephine was!”“She was not a ninny!” Klaus cried. “She was kind and sweet!”“Sweet?” Count Olaf repeated, with a horrible smile. “Well, at this very moment theLachrymose Leeches are probably finding her very sweet indeed. She might be thesweetest breakfast they ever ate.”Mr. Poe frowned, and coughed into his white handkerchief. “That’s enough of yourrevolting talk, Olaf,” he said sternly. “We’ve caught you now, and there’s no way you’ll begetting away. The Lake Lachrymose Police Department will be happy to capture a knowncriminal wanted for fraud, murder, and the endangerment of children.”“And arson,” Count Olaf piped up.“I said that’s enough” Mr. Poe growled. Count Olaf, the Baudelaire orphans, and eventhe massive creature looked surprised that Mr. Poe had spoken so sternly. “You havepreyed upon these children for the last time, and I am making absolutely sure that you arehanded over to the proper authorities. Disguising yourself won’t work. Telling lies won’twork. In fact there’s nothing at all you can do about your situation.”“Really?” Count Olaf said, and his filthy lips curved up in a smile. “I can think ofsomething that I can do.”“And what,” said Mr. Poe, “is that?”Count Olaf looked at each one of the Baudelaire orphans, giving each one a smile as ifthe children were tiny chocolates he was saving to eat for later. Then he smiled at themassive creature, and then, slowly, he smiled at Mr. Poe. “I can run,” he said, and ran.Count Olaf ran, with the massive creature lumbering behind him, in the direction of theheavy metal gate.“Get back here!” Mr. Poe shouted. “Get back here in the name of the law! Get backhere in the name of justice and righteousness! Get back here in the name of MulctuaryMoney Management!”“We can’t just shout at them!” Violet shouted. “Come on! We have to chase them!”“I’m not going to allow children to chase after a man like that,” Mr. Poe said, and calledout again, “Stop, I say! Stop right there!”“We can’t let them escape!” Klaus cried. “Come on, Violet! Come on, Sunny!”“No, no, this is no job for children,” Mr. Poe said. “Wait here with your sisters, Klaus.I’ll retrieve them. They won’t get away from Mr. Poe. You, there! Stop!”“But we can’t wait here!” Violet cried. “We have to get into a sailboat and look forAunt Josephine! She may still be alive!”“You Baudelaire children are under my care,” Mr. Poe said firmly. “I’m not going to letsmall children sail around unaccompanied.”“But if we hadn’t sailed unaccompanied,” Klaus pointed out, “we’d be in Count Olaf’sclutches by now!”“That’s not the point,” Mr. Poe said, and began to walk quickly toward Count Olaf andthe creature. “The point is-”But the children didn’t hear the point over the loud slam! of the tall metal gate. Thecreature had slammed it shut just as Mr. Poe had reached it.“Stop immediately!” Mr. Poe ordered, calling through the gate. “Come back here, youunpleasant person!” He tried to open the tall gate and found it locked. “It’s locked!” hecried to the children. “Where is the key? We must find the key!”The Baudelaires rushed to the gate but stopped as they heard a jingling sound. “I havethe key,” said Count Olaf’s voice, from the other side of the gate. “But don’t worry. I’llsee you soon, orphans. Very soon.”“Open this gate immediately!” Mr. Poe shouted, but of course nobody opened the gate.He shook it and shook it, but the spiky metal gate never opened. Mr. Poe hurried to aphone booth and called the police, but the children knew that by the time help arrivedCount Olaf would be long gone. Utterly exhausted and more than utterly miserable, theBaudelaire orphans sank to the ground, sitting glumly in the very same spot where wefound them at the beginning of this story.In the first chapter, you will remember, the Baudelaires were sitting on their suitcases,hoping that their lives were about to get a little bit better, and I wish I could tell you, hereat the end of the story, that it was so. I wish I could write that Count Olaf was captured ashe tried to flee, or that Aunt Josephine came swimming up to Damocles Dock, havingmiraculously escaped from the Lachrymose Leeches. But it was not so. As the children saton the damp ground, Count Olaf was already halfway across the lake and would soon beon board a train, disguised as a rabbi to fool the police, and I’m sorry to tell you that hewas already concocting another scheme to steal the Baudelaire fortune. And we can neverknow exactly what was happening to Aunt Josephine as the children sat on the dock,unable to help her, but I will say that eventually-about the time when the Baudelaireorphans were forced to attend a miserable boarding school-two fishermen found both ofAunt Josephine’s life jackets, all in tatters and floating alone in the murky waters of LakeLachrymose.In most stories, as you know, the villain would be defeated, there would be a happyending, and everybody would go home knowing the moral of the story. But in the case ofthe Baudelaires everything was wrong. Count Olaf, the villain, had not succeeded with hisevil plan, but he certainly hadn’t been defeated, either. You certainly couldn’t say thatthere was a happy ending. And the Baudelaires could not go home knowing the moral ofthe story, for the simple reason that they could not go home at all. Not only had AuntJosephine’s house fallen into the lake, but the Baudelaires’ real home-the house wherethey had lived with their parents-was just a pile of ashes in a vacant lot, and they couldn’tgo back there no matter how much they wanted to.But even if they could go home it would be difficult for me to tell you what the moralof the story is. In some stories, it’s easy. The moral of “The Three Bears,” for instance, is“Never break into someone else’s house.” The moral of “Snow White” is “Never eatapples.” The moral of World War One is “Never assassinate Archduke Ferdinand.” ButViolet, Klaus, and Sunny sat on the dock and watched the sun come up over LakeLachrymose and wondered exactly what the moral was of their time with Aunt Josephine.The expression “It dawned on them,” which I am about to use, does not have anything todo with the sunlight spreading out over Damocles Dock. “It dawned on them” simplymeans “They figured something out,” and as the Baudelaire orphans sat and watched thedock fill with people as the business of the day began, they figured out something that wasvery important to them. It dawned on them that unlike Aunt Josephine, who had lived upin that house, sad and alone, the three children had one another for comfort and supportover the course of their miserable lives. And while this did not make them feel entirelysafe, or entirely happy, it made them feel appreciative.“Thank you, Klaus,” Violet said appreciatively, “for figuring out that note. And thankyou, Sunny, for stealing the keys to the sailboat. If it weren’t for the two of you we wouldnow be in Count Olaf’s clutches.”“Thank you, Violet,” Klaus said appreciatively, “for thinking of the peppermints to gainus some time. And thank you, Sunny, for biting the peg leg just at the right moment. If itweren’t for the two of you, we would now be doomed.”“Pilums,” Sunny said appreciatively, and her siblings understood at once that she wasthanking Violet for inventing the signaling device, and thanking Klaus for reading theatlas and guiding them to Curdled Cave .They leaned up against one another appreciatively, and small smiles appeared on theirdamp and anxious faces. They had each other. I’m not sure that “The Baudelaires had eachother” is the moral of this story, but to the three siblings it was enough. To have each otherin the midst of their unfortunate lives felt like having a sailboat in the middle of ahurricane, and to the Baudelaire orphans this felt very fortunate indeed.To My Kind Editor,I am writing to you from the Paltryville Town Hall , where I have convinced the mayorto allow me inside the eye-shaped office of Dr. Orwell in order to further investigate whathappened to the Baudelaire orphans while they were living in the area.Next Friday, a black jeep will be in the northwest corner of the parking lot of the OrionObservatory. Break into it. In the glove compartment, you should find my description ofthis frightening chapter in the Baudelaires’ lives, entitled THE MISERABLE MILL, aswell as some information on hypnosis, a surgical mask, and sixty-eight sticks of gum. Ihave also included the blueprint of the pincher machine, which I believe Mr. Helquist willfind useful for his illustrations.Remember, you are my last hope that the tales of the Baudelaire orphans can finally betold to the general public.With all due respect,Lemony SnicketA Series of Unfortunate Events 4 - TheMiserable MillASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the FourthThe Miserable MillLemony SnicketTo BeatriceMy love flew like a butterflyUntil death swooped down like a batAs the poet Emma Montana McElroy said:“That’s the end of that.”C H A P T E ROneSometime during your life-in fact, very soon-you may find yourself reading abook, and you may notice that a book’s first sentence can often tell you what sort ofstory your book contains. For instance, a book that began with the sentence “Onceupon a time there was a family of cunning little chipmunks who lived in a hollowtree” would probably contain a story full of talking animals who get into all sorts ofmischief. A book that began with the sentence “Emily sat down and looked at thestack of blueberry pancakes her mother had prepared for her, but she was too nervousabout Camp Timbertops to eat a bite” would probably contain a story full of gigglygirls who have a grand old time. And a book that began with the sentence “Garysmelled the leather of his brand-new catcher’s mitt and waited impatiently for hisbest friend Larry to come around the corner” would probably contain a story full ofsweaty boys who win some sort of trophy. And if you liked mischief, a grand oldtime, or trophies, you would know which book to read, and you could throw the restof them away.But this book begins with the sentence “The Baudelaire orphans looked out thegrimy window of the train and gazed at the gloomy blackness of the Finite Forest,wondering if their lives would ever get any better,” and you should be able to tell thatthe story that follows will be very different from the story of Gary or Emily or thefamily of cunning little chipmunks. And this is for the simple reason that the lives ofViolet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire are very different from most people’s lives, withthe main difference being the amount of unhappiness, horror, and despair. The threechildren have no time to get into all sorts of mischief, because misery follows themwherever they go. They have not had a grand old time since their parents died in aterrible fire. And the only trophy they would win would be some sort of First Prizefor Wretchedness. It is atrociously unfair, of course, that the Baudelaires have somany troubles, but that is the way the story goes. So now that I’ve told you that thefirst sentence will be “The Baudelaire orphans looked out the grimy window of thetrain and gazed at the gloomy blackness of the Finite Forest, wondering if their liveswould ever get any better,” if you wish to avoid an unpleasant story you had best putthis book down.The Baudelaire orphans looked out the grimy window of the train and gazed at thegloomy blackness of the Finite Forest , wondering if their lives would ever get anybetter. An announcement over a crackly loudspeaker had just told them that in a fewminutes they would arrive in the town of Paltryville , where their new caretaker lived,and they couldn’t help wondering who in the world would want to live in such darkand eerie countryside. Violet, who was fourteen and the eldest Baudelaire, looked outat the trees of the forest, which were very tall and had practically no branches, sothey looked almost like metal pipes instead of trees. Violet was an inventor, and wasalways designing machines and devices in her head, with her hair tied up in a ribbonto help her think, and as she gazed out at the trees she began work on a mechanismthat would allow you to climb to the top of any tree, even if it were completely bare.Klaus, who was twelve, looked down at the forest floor, which was covered in brown,patchy moss. Klaus liked to read more than anything else, and he tried to rememberwhat he had read about Paltryville mosses and whether any of them were edible. AndSunny, who was just an infant, looked out at the smoky gray sky that hung over theforest like a damp sweater. Sunny had four sharp teeth, and biting things with themwas what interested her most, and she was eager to see what there was available tobite in the area. But even as Violet began planning her invention, and Klaus thoughtof his moss research, and Sunny opened and closed her mouth as a prebiting exercise,the Finite Forest looked so uninspiring that they couldn’t help wondering if their newhome would really be a pleasant one.“What a lovely forest!” Mr. Poe remarked, and coughed into a white handkerchief.Mr. Poe was a banker who had been in charge of managing the Baudelaire affairssince the fire, and I must tell you that he was not doing a very good job’ His twomain duties were finding the orphans a good home and protecting the enormousfortune that the children’s parents had left behind, and so far each home had been acatastrophe, a word which here means “an utter disaster involving tragedy, deception,and Count Olaf.” Count Olaf was a terrible man who wanted the Baudelaire fortunefor himself, and tried every disgusting scheme he could think of to steal it. Time aftertime he had come very close to succeeding, and time after time the Baudelaireorphans had revealed his plan, and time after time he had escaped-and all Mr. Poehad ever done was cough. Now he was accompanying the children to Paltryville, andit pains me to tell you that once again Count Olaf would appear with yet anotherdisgusting scheme, and that Mr. Poe would once again fail to do anything evenremotely helpful. “What a lovely forest!” Mr. Poe said again, when he was donecoughing. “I think you children will have a good home here. I hope you do, anyway,because I’ve just received a promotion at Mulctuary Money Management. I’m nowthe Vice President in Charge of Coins, and from now on I will be busier than ever. Ifanything goes wrong with you here, I will have to send you to boarding school until Ihave time to find you another home, so please be on your best behavior.”“Of course, Mr. Poe,” Violet said, not adding that she and her siblings had alwaysbeen on their best behavior but that it hadn’t done them any good.“What is our new caretaker’s name?” Klaus asked. “You haven’t told us.”Mr. Poe took a piece of paper out of his pocket and squinted at it. “His name is Mr.Wuz- Mr. Qui- I can’t pronounce it. It’s very long and complicated.”“Can I see?” Klaus asked. “Maybe I can figure out how to pronounce it.”“No, no,” Mr. Poe said, putting the paper away. “If it’s too complicated for anadult, it’s much too complicated for a child.”“Ghand!” Sunny shrieked. Like many infants, Sunny spoke mostly in sounds thatwere often difficult to translate. This time she probably meant something like “ButKlaus reads many complicated books!”“He’ll tell you what to call him,” Mr. Poe continued, as if Sunny had not spoken.“You’ll find him at the main office of the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, which I’m toldis a short walk from the train station.”“Aren’t you coming with us?” Violet asked.“No,” Mr. Poe said, and coughed again into his handkerchief. “The train only stopsat Paltry-ville once a day, so if I got off the train I would have to stay overnight andI’d miss another day at the bank. I’m just dropping you off here and heading rightback into the city.”The Baudelaire orphans looked worriedly out the window. They weren’t veryhappy about just being dropped off in a strange place, as if they were a pizza beingdelivered instead of three children all alone in the world.“What if Count Olaf shows up?” Klaus asked quietly. “He swore he’d find usagain.”“I have given Mr. Bek- Mr. Duy- I have given your new caretaker a completedescription of Count Olaf,” said Mr. Poe. “So if by some stretch of the imaginationhe shows up in Paltryville, Mr. Sho- Mr. Gek- will notify the authorities.”“But Count Olaf is always in disguise,” Violet pointed out. “It’s often difficult torecognize him. Just about the only way you can tell it’s him is if you see that tattoo ofan eye that he has on his ankle.”“I included the tattoo in my description,” Mr. Poe said impatiently.“But what about Count Olaf’s assistants?” Klaus asked. “He usually brings at leastone of them with him, to help out with his treachery.”“I described all of them to Mr.- I have described all of them to the owner of themill,” Mr. Poe said, holding a finger up as he counted off Olaf’s horrible associates.“The hook-handed man. The bald man with the long nose. Two women with whitepowder all over their faces. And that rather chubby one who looks like neither a mannor a woman. Your new guardian is aware of them all, and if there’s any problem,remember you can always contact me or any of my associates at Mulctuary MoneyManagement.”“Casca,” Sunny said glumly. She probably meant something like “That’s not veryreassuring,” but nobody heard her over the sound of the train whistle as they arrivedat Paltryville Station.“Here we are,” Mr. Poe said, and before the children knew it they were standing inthe station, watching the train pull away into the dark trees of the Finite Forest . Theclattering noise of the train engine got softer and softer as the train raced out of sight,and soon the three siblings were all alone indeed.“Well,” Violet said, picking up the small bag that contained the children’s fewclothes, “let’s find the Lucky Smells Lumbermill. Then we can meet our newcaretaker.”“Or at least learn his name,” Klaus said glumly, and took Sunny’s hand.If you are ever planning a vacation, you may find it useful to acquire a guidebook,which is a book listing interesting and pleasant places to visit and giving helpful hintsabout what to do when you arrive. Paltryville is not listed in any guidebook, and asthe Baudelaire orphans trudged down Paltryville’s one street, they instantly saw why.There were a few small shops on either side of the street, but none of them had anywindows. There was a post office, but instead of a flag flying from the flagpole, therewas only an old shoe dangling from the top of it, and across from the post office wasa high wooden wall that ran all the way to the end of the street. In the middle of thewall was a tall gate, also made of wood, with the words “Lucky Smells Lumbermill”written on it in letters that looked rough and slimy. Alongside the sidewalk, where arow of trees might have been, were towering stacks of old newspapers instead. Inshort, everything that might make a town interesting or pleasant had been madeboring or unpleasant, and if Paltryville had been listed in a guidebook the onlyhelpful hint about what to do when you got there would be: “Leave.” But the threeyoungsters couldn’t leave, of course, and with a sigh Violet led her younger siblingsto the wooden gate. She was about to knock when Klaus touched her on the shoulderand said, “Look.”“I know,” she said. Violet thought he was talking about the letters spelling out“Lucky Smells Lumbermill.” Now that they were standing at the gate, the childrencould see why the letters looked rough and slimy: they were made out of wads andwads of chewed-up gum, just stuck on the gate in the shapes of letters. Other than asign I saw once that said “Beware” in letters made of dead monkeys, the “LuckySmells Lumbermill” sign was the most disgusting sign on earth, and Violet thoughther brother was pointing that out. But when she turned to agree with him, she saw hewasn’t looking at the sign, but down to the far end of the street.“Look,” Klaus said again, but Violet had already seen what he was looking at. Thetwo of them stood there without speaking a word, staring hard at the building at theend of Paltryville’s one street. Sunny had been examining some of the teeth marks inthe gum, but when her siblings fell silent she looked up and saw it, too. For a fewseconds the Baudelaire orphans just looked.“It must be a coincidence,” Violet said, after a long pause.“Of course,” Klaus said nervously, “a coincidence.”“Varni,” Sunny agreed, but she didn’t believe it. None of the orphans did. Nowthat the children had reached the mill, they could see another building, at the far endof the street. Like the other buildings in town, it had no windows, just a round door inthe center. But it was the way the building was shaped, and how it was painted, thatmade the Baudelaires stare. The building was a sort of oval shape, with curved,skinny sticks sticking out of the top of it. Most of the oval was painted a brownishcolor, with a big circle of white inside the oval, and a smaller circle of green insidethe white circle, and some little black steps led to a little round door that was paintedblack, so it looked like an even smaller circle inside the green one. The building hadbeen made to look like an eye.The three children looked at one another, and then at the building, and then at eachother again, shaking their heads. Try as they might, they just couldn’t believe it was acoincidence that the town in which they were to live had a building that looked justlike the tattoo of Count Olaf.C H A P T E RTwoIt is much, much worse to receive bad news through the written word than bysomebody simply telling you, and I’m sure you understand why. When somebodysimply tells you bad news, you hear it once, and that’s the end of it. But when badnews is written down, whether in a letter or a newspaper or on your arm in felt tippen, each time you read it, you feel as if you are receiving the news again and again.For instance, I once loved a woman, who for various reasons could not marry me. Ifshe had simply told me in person, I would have been very sad, of course, buteventually it might have passed. However, she chose instead to write a two-hundredpage book, explaining every single detail of the bad news at great length, and insteadmy sadness has been of impossible depth. When the book was first brought to me, bya flock of carrier pigeons, I stayed up all night reading it, and I read it still, over andover, and it is as if my darling Beatrice is bringing me bad news every day and everynight of my life.The Baudelaire orphans knocked again and again on the wooden gate, taking carenot to hit the chewed-up gum letters with their knuckles, but nobody answered, and atlast they tried the gate themselves and found that it was unlocked. Behind the gatewas a large courtyard with a dirt floor, and on the dirt floor was an envelope with theword “Baudelaires” typed on the front. Klaus picked up the envelope and opened it,and inside was a note that read as follows:MemorandumTo: The Baudelaire OrphansFrom: Lucky Smells LumbermillSubject: Your ArrivalEnclosed you will find a map of the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, including thedormitory where the three of you will he staying, free of charge. Please report towork the following morning along with the other employees. The owner of LuckySmells Lumbermill expects you to be both assiduous and diligent.“What do those words mean, ‘assiduous’ and ‘diligent’?” Violet asked, peeringover Klaus’s shoulder.“‘Assiduous’ and ‘diligent’ both mean the same thing,” said Klaus, who knew lotsof impressive words from all the books he had read. “‘Hardworking.’”“But Mr. Poe didn’t say anything about working in the the lumbermill,” Violetsaid. “I thought we were just going to live here.”Klaus frowned at the hand-drawn map that was attached to the note with anotherwad of gum, “This map looks pretty easy to read,” he said. “The dormitory is straightahead, between the storage shed and the lumbermill itself.”Violet looked straight ahead and saw a gray windowless building on the other sideof the courtyard. “I don’t want to live,” she said, “between the storage shed and thelumbermill itself.”“It doesn’t sound like much fun,” Klaus admitted, “but you never know. The millmight have complicated machines, and you would find it interesting to study them.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “You never know. It might have some hard wood, andSunny would find it interesting to bite it.”“Snevi!” Sunny shrieked.“And there might be some interesting lumbermill manuals for me to read,” Klaussaid. “You never know.”“That’s right,” Violet said. “You never know. This might be a wonderful place tolive.”The three siblings looked at one another, and felt a little better. It is true, of course,that you never know. A new experience can be extremely pleasurable, or extremelyirritating, or somewhere in between, and you never know until you try it out. And asthe children began walking toward the gray, windowless building, they felt ready totry out their new home at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, because you never know.But—and my heart aches as I tell you this—I always know. I know because I havebeen to the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, and learned of all the atrocious things thatbefell these poor orphans during the brief time they lived there. I know because Ihave talked to some of the people who were there at the time, and heard with my ownears the troublesome story of the children’s stay in Paltryville. And I know because Ihave written down all the details in order to convey to you, the reader, just howmiserable their experience was. I know, and this knowledge sits in my heart, heavy asa paperweight. I wish I could have been at the lumbermill when the Baudelaires werethere, because they didn’t know. I wish I could tell them what I know, as they walkedacross the courtyard, raising small clouds of dust with every step. They didn’t know,but I know and I wish they knew, if you know what I mean.When the Baudelaires reached the door of the gray building, Klaus took anotherlook at the map, nodded his head, and knocked. After a long pause, the door creakedopen and revealed a confused-looking man whose clothes were covered in sawdust.He stared at them for quite some time before speaking.“No one has knocked on this door,” he said finally, “for fourteen years.”Sometimes, when somebody says something so strange that you don’t know whatto say in return, it is best to just politely say “How do you do?”“How do you do?” Violet said politely. “I am Violet Baudelaire, and these are mysiblings, Klaus and Sunny.”The confused-looking man looked even more confused, and put his hands on hiships, brushing some of the sawdust off his shirt. “Are you sure you’re in the rightplace?” he asked.“I think so,” Klaus said. “This is the dormitory at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill,isn’t it?”“Yes,” the man said, “but we’re not allowed to have visitors.”“We’re not visitors,” Violet replied. “We’re going to live here.”The man scratched his head, and the Baude-laires watched as sawdust fell out ofhis messy gray hair. “You’re going to live here, at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill?”“Cigarn!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Look at this note!”Klaus gave the note to the man, who was careful not to touch the gum as he read itover. Then he looked down at the orphans with his tired, sawdust-sprinkled eyes.“You’re going to work here, too? Children, working in a lumber-mill is a verydifficult job. Trees have to be stripped of their bark and sawed into narrow strips tomake boards. The boards have to be tied together into stacks and loaded onto trucks. Imust tell you that the majority of people who work in the lumber business are grownups. But if the owner says you’re working here, I guess you’re working here. You’dbetter come inside.” The man opened the door further, and the Baudelaires steppedinside the dormitory. “My name’s Phil, by the way,” Phil said. “You can join us fordinner in a few minutes, but in the meantime I’ll give you a tour of the dormitory.”Phil led the youngsters into a large, dimly lit room filled with bunk beds, standing inrows and rows on a cement floor. Sitting or lying down on the bunks were anassortment of people, men and women, all of whom looked tired and all of whomwere covered in sawdust. They were sitting together in groups of four or five, playingcards, chatting quietly, or simply staring into space, and a few of them looked up withmild interest as the three siblings walked into the room. The whole place had a dampsmell, a smell rooms get when the windows have not been opened for quite sometime. Of course, in this case the windows had never been opened, because thereweren’t any windows, although the children could see that somebody had taken aballpoint pen and drawn a few windows on the gray cement walls. The windowdrawings somehow made the room even more pathetic, a word which here means“depressing and containing no windows,” and the Baudelaire orphans felt a lump intheir throats just looking at it.“This here is the room where we sleep,” Phil said. “There’s a bunk over there inthe far corner that you three can have. You can store your bag underneath the bed.Through that door is the bathroom and down that hallway over there is the kitchen.That’s pretty much the grand tour. Everyone, this is Violet, Klaus, and Sunny.They’re going to work here.”“But they’re children,” one of the women said. “I know,” Phil said. “But the ownersays they’re going to work here, so they’re going to work here.”“By the way,” Klaus said, “what is the owner’s name? Nobody has told us.”“I don’t know,” Phil said, stroking his dusty chin. “He hasn’t visited the dormitoryfor six years or so. Does anybody remember the owner’s name?”“I think it’s Mister something,” one of the men said.“You mean you never talk to him?” Violet asked.“We never even see him,” Phil said. “The owner lives in a house across from thestorage shed, and only comes to the lumbermill for special occasions. We see theforeman all the time, but never the owner.”“Teruca?” Sunny asked, which probably meant “What’s a foreman?”“A foreman,” Klaus explained, “is somebody who supervises workers. Is he nice,Phil?”“He’s awful!” one of the other men said, and some of the others took up the cry.“He’s terrible!”“He’s disgusting!”“He’s revoltingl ”“He’s the worst foreman the world has ever seen!”“He is pretty bad,” Phil said to the Baude-laires. “The guy we used to have,Foreman Firstein, was O.K. But last week he stopped showing up. It was very odd.The man who replaced him, Foreman Flacutono, is very mean. You’ll stay on hisgood side if you know what’s good for you.”“He doesn’t have a good side,” a woman said.“Now, now,” Phil said. “Everything and everybody has a good side. Come on, let’shave our supper.”The Baudelaire orphans smiled at Phil, and followed the other employees of theLucky Smells Lumbermill into the kitchen, but they still had lumps in their throats asbig as the lumps in the beef casserole that they ate for supper. The children could tell,from Phil’s statement about everything and everybody having a good side, that hewas an optimist. “Optimist” is a word which here refers to a person, such as Phil,who thinks hopeful and pleasant thoughts about nearly everything. For instance, if anoptimist had his left arm chewed off by an alligator, he might say, in a pleasant andhopeful voice, “Well, this isn’t too bad. I don’t have my left arm anymore, but at leastnobody will ever ask me whether I am right-handed or left-handed,” but most of uswould say something more along the lines of “Aaaaah! My arm! My arm!”The Baudelaire orphans ate their damp casserole, and they tried to be optimistslike Phil, but try as they might, none of their thoughts turned out pleasant or hopeful.They thought of the bunk bed they would share, in the smelly room with windowsdrawn on the walls. They thought of doing hard work in the lumbermill, gettingsawdust all over them and being bossed around by Foreman Flacutono. They thoughtof the eye-shaped building outside the wooden gate. And most of all, they thought oftheir parents, their poor parents whom they missed so much and whom they wouldnever see again. They thought all through supper, and they thought while changinginto their pajamas, and they thought as Violet tossed and turned in the top bunk andKlaus and Sunny tossed and turned below her. They thought, as they did in thecourtyard, that you never know, and that their new home could still be a wonderfulone. But they could guess. And as the Lucky Smells employees snored around them,the children thought about all their unhappy circumstances, and began guessing. Theytossed and turned, and guessed and guessed, and by the time they fell asleep therewasn’t a single optimist in the Baudelaire bunk.holding a breakfast of hot tea and toast on a plate, you will know that your day will beO.K. And if you wake up to the sound of somebody banging two metal pots together, andfind yourself in a small bunk bed, with a nasty foreman standing in the doorway holdingno breakfast at all, you will know that your day will be horrid.You and I, of course, cannot be too surprised that the Baudelaire orphans’ first dayat the Lucky Smells Lumbermill was a horrid one. And the Baudelaires certainly didnot expect twittering birds or a butler, not after their dismaying arrival. But never intheir most uneasy dreams did they expect the cacophony—a word which here means“the sound of two metal pots being banged together by a nasty foreman standing inthe doorway holding no breakfast at all”— that awoke them.“Get up, you lazy, smelly things!” cried the foreman in an odd-sounding voice. Hespoke as if he were covering his mouth with his hands. “Time for work, everybody!There’s a new shipment of logs just waiting to be made into lumber!”The children sat up and rubbed their eyes. All around them, the employees of theLucky Smells Lumbermill were stretching and covering their ears at the sound of thepots. Phil, who was already up and making his bunk neatly, gave the Baudelaires atired smile.“Good morning, Baudelaires,” Phil said. “And good morning, Foreman Flacutono.May I introduce you to your three newest employees? Foreman Flacutono, this isViolet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire.”“I heard we’d have some new workers,” the foreman said, dropping the pots to thefloor with a clatter, “but nobody told me they’d be midgets.”“We’re not midgets,” Violet explained. “We’re children.”“Children, midgets, what do I care?” Foreman Flacutono said in his muffled voice,walking over to the orphans’ bunk. “All I care is that you get out of bed this instantand go straight to the mill.”The Baudelaires hopped out of the bunk bed, not wanting to anger a man whobanged pots together instead of saying “Good morning.” But once they got a goodlook at Foreman Flacutono they wanted to hop back into their bunks and pull thecovers over their heads.I’m sure you have heard it said that appearance does not matter so much, and thatit is what’s on the inside that counts. This is, of course, utter nonsense, because if itwere true then people who were good on the inside would never have to comb theirhair or take a bath, and the whole world would smell even worse than it already does.Appearance matters a great deal, because you can often tell a lot about people bylooking at how they present themselves. And it was the way Foreman Flacutonopresented himself that made the orphans want to jump back into their bunks. He waswearing stained overalls, which never make a good impression, and his shoes weretaped shut instead of being tied up with laces. But it was the foreman’s head that wasthe most unpleasant. Foreman Flacutono was bald, as bald as an egg, but rather thanadmit to being bald like sensible people do, he had purchased a curly white wig thatmade it look like he had a bunch of large dead worms all over his head. Some of theworm hairs stuck straight up, and some of them curled off to one side, and some ofthem ran down his ears and his forehead, and a few of them stretched straight outahead as if they wanted to escape from Foreman Flacutono’s scalp. Below his wigwas a pair of dark and beady eyes, which blinked at the orphans in a most unpleasantway.As for the rest of his face, it was impossible to tell what it looked like, because itwas covered with a cloth mask, such as doctors wear when they are in hospitals.Foreman Flacutono’s nose was all curled up under the mask, like an alligator hidingin the mud, and when he spoke the Baudelaires could see his mouth opening andclosing behind the cloth. It is perfectly proper to wear these masks in hospitals, ofcourse, to stop the spreading of germs, but it makes no sense if you are the foremanof the Lucky Smells Lumbermill. The only reason Foreman Flacutono could have forwearing a surgical mask would be to frighten people, and as he peered down at theBaudelaire orphans they were quite frightened indeed.“The first thing you can do, Baudeliars,” Foreman Flacutono said, “is pick up mypots. And never make me drop them again.”“But we didn’t make you drop them,” Klaus said.“Bram!” Sunny added, which probably meant something like “and our last name isBaudelaire.”“If you don’t pick up the pots this instant” Foreman Flacutono said, “you will getno chewing gum for lunch.”The Baudelaire orphans did not care much for chewing gum, particularlypeppermint chewing gum, which they were allergic to, but they ran to the pots. Violetpicked one up and Sunny picked up the other, while Klaus hurriedly made the beds.“Give them to me,” Foreman Flacutono snapped, and grabbed the pots out of thegirls’ hands. “Now, workers, we’ve wasted enough time already. To the mills! Logsare waiting for us!”“I hate log days,” one of the employees grumbled, but everyone followed ForemanFlacutono out of the dormitory and across the dirt-floored courtyard to thelumbermill, which was a dull gray building with many smokestacks sticking out ofthe top like a porcupine’s quills. The three children looked at one another worriedly.Except for one summer day, back when their parents were still alive, when theBaude-laires had opened a lemonade stand in front of their house, the orphans hadnever had jobs, and they were nervous.The Baudelaires followed Foreman Flacutono into the lumbermill and saw that itwas all one huge room, filled with enormous machines. Violet looked at a shiny steelmachine with a pair of steel pinchers like the arms of a crab, and tried to figure outhow this invention worked. Klaus examined a machine that looked like a big cage,with an enormous ball of string trapped inside, and tried to remember what he hadread about lumbermills. Sunny stared at a rusty, creaky-looking machine that had acircular sawblade that looked quite jagged and fearsome and wondered if it wassharper than her own teeth. And all three Baudelaires gazed at a machine, covered intiny smokestacks, that held a huge, flat stone up in the air, and wondered what in theworld it was doing there.The Baudelaires had only a few seconds to be curious about these machines,however, before Foreman Flacutono began clanging his two pots together andbarking out orders. “The logs!” he shouted. “Turn on the pincher machine and getstarted with the logs!”Phil ran to the pincher machine and pressed an orange button on it. With a roughwhistling noise, the pinchers opened, and stretched toward the far wall of thelumbermill. The orphans had been so curious about the machines that they hadn’tnoticed the huge pile of trees that were stacked, leaves and roots and all, along onewall of the lumbermill as if a giant had simply torn a small forest out of the groundand dropped it into the room. The pinchers picked up the tree on top of the stack andbegan lowering it to the ground, while Foreman Flacutono banged his pots togetherand shouted, “The debarkers! The debarkers!”Another employee walked to the back corner of the room, where there were astack of tiny green boxes and a pile of flat metal rectangles, as long and as thin as anadult eel. Without a word she picked up the pile of rectangles and began distributingthem to the workers. “Take a debarker,” she whispered to the children. “One each.”The children each took a rectangle and stood there, confused and hungry, just asthe tree touched the ground. Foreman Flacutono clanged his pots together again, andthe employees crowded around the tree and began scraping against it with theirdebarkers, filing the bark off each tree as you or I might file our nails. “You, too,midgets!” the foreman shouted, and the children found room among the adults toscrape away at the tree.Phil had described the rigors of working in a lumbermill, and it had certainlysounded difficult. But as you remember, Phil was an optimist, so the actual workturned out to be much, much worse. For one thing, the debarkers were adult-sized,and it was difficult for the children to use them. Sunny could scarcely lift herdebarker at all, and so used her teeth instead, but Violet and Klaus had teeth of onlyan average sharpness and so had to struggle with the debarkers. The three childrenscraped and scraped, but only tiny pieces of bark fell from the tree. For another thing,the children had not eaten any breakfast, and as the morning wore on they were sohungry that it was difficult to even lift the debarker, let alone scrape it against thetree. And for one more thing, once a tree was finally cleared of bark, the pincherswould drop another one onto the ground, and they would have to start all over again,which was extremely boring. But for the worst thing of all, the noise at the LuckySmells Lumbermill was simply deafening. The debarkers made their displeasingscraping sound as they dragged across the trees. The pinchers made their roughwhistling noise as they picked up logs. And Foreman Flacutono made his horrendousclanging noise as he banged his pots together. The orphans grew exhausted andfrustrated. Their stomachs hurt and their ears rang. And they were unbelievablybored.Finally, as the employees finished their fourteenth log, Foreman Flacutono bangedhis pots together and shouted, “Lunch break!” The workers stopped scraping, and thepinchers stopped whistling, and everyone sat down, exhausted, on the ground.Foreman Flacutono threw his pots on the floor, walked over to the tiny green boxes,and grabbed one. Opening it with a rip, he began to toss small pink squares at theworkers, one to each. “You have five minutes for lunch!” he shouted, throwing threepink squares at the children. The Baudelaires could see that a damp patch hadappeared on his surgical mask, from spit flying out of his mouth as he gave orders.“Just five minutes!”Violet looked from the damp patch on the mask to the pink square in her hand, andfor a second she didn’t believe what she was looking at. “It’s gum!” she said. “This isgum!”Klaus looked from his sister’s square to his own. “Gum isn’t lunch\” he cried.“Gum isn’t even a snack\”“Tanco!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “And babiesshouldn’t even have gum, because they could choke on it!”“You’d better eat your gum,” Phil said, moving over to sit next to the children.“It’s not very filling, but it’s the only thing they’ll let you eat until dinnertime.”“Well, maybe we can get up a little earlier tomorrow,” Violet said, “and makesome sandwiches.”“We don’t have any sandwich-making ingredients,” Phil said. “We just get onemeal, usually a casserole, every evening.”“Well, maybe we can go into town and buy some ingredients,” Klaus said.“I wish we could,” Phil said, “but we don’t have any money.”“What about your wages?” Violet asked. “Surely you can spend some of themoney you earn on sandwich ingredients.”Phil gave the children a sad smile, and reached into his pocket. “At the LuckySmells Lumbermill,” he said, bringing out a bunch of tiny scraps of paper, “theydon’t pay us in money. They pay us in coupons. See, here’s what we all earnedyesterday: twenty percent off a shampoo at Sam’s Haircutting Palace . The day beforethat we earned this coupon for a free refill of iced tea, and last week we earned thisone: ‘Buy Two Banjos and Get One Free.’ The trouble is, we can’t buy two banjos,because we don’t have anything but these coupons.”“Nelnu!” Sunny shrieked, but Foreman Flacutono began banging his pots togetherbefore anyone could realize what she meant.“Lunch is over!” he shouted. “Back to work, everyone! Everyone except you,Baudelamps! The boss wants to see you three in his office right away!”The three siblings put down their debark-ers and looked at one another. They hadbeen working so hard that they had almost forgotten about meeting their guardian,whatever his name was. What sort of man would force small children to work in alumbermill? What sort of man would hire a monster like Foreman Flacutono? Whatsort of man would pay his employees in coupons, or feed them only gum? ForemanFlacutono banged his pots together again and pointed at the door, and the childrenstepped out of the noisy room into the quiet of the courtyard. Klaus took the map outof his pocket and pointed the way to the office. With each step, the orphans raisedsmall clouds of dirt that matched the clouds of dread hovering over them. Theirbodies ached from the morning’s work, and they had an uneasy feeling in their emptystomachs. As they had guessed from the way their day began, the three children werehaving a bad day. But as they got closer and closer to the office, they wondered iftheir day was about to get even worse.C H A P T E RFourAs I’m sure you know, whenever there is a mirror around, it is almost impossiblenot to take a look at yourself. Even though we all know what we look like, we all likejust to look at our reflections, if only to see how we’re doing. As the Baudelaireorphans waited outside the office to meet their new guardian, they looked in a mirrorhanging in the hallway and they saw at once that they were not doing so well. Thechildren looked tired and they looked hungry. Violet’s hair was covered in smallpieces of bark. Klaus’s glasses were hanging askew, a phrase which here means“tilted to one side from leaning over logs the entire morning.” And there were smallpieces of wood stuck in Sunny’s four teeth from using them as debarkers. Behindthem, reflected in the mirror, was a painting of the seashore, which was hanging onthe opposite wall, which made them feel even worse, because the seashore alwaysmade them remember that terrible, terrible day when the three siblings went to thebeach and soon received the news from Mr. Poe that their parents had died. Thechildren stared at their own reflections, and stared at the painting of the seashorebehind them, and it was almost unbearable to think about everything that hadhappened to them since that day.“If someone had told me,” Violet said, “that day at the beach, that before long I’dfind myself living at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, I would have said they werecrazy.”“If someone had told me” Klaus said, “that day at the beach, that before long I’dfind myself pursued by a greedy, evil man named Count Olaf, I would have said theywere insane.”“Wora,” Sunny said, which meant something like “If someone had told me, thatday at the beach, that before long I’d find myself using my four teeth to scrape thebark off trees, I would have said they were psychoneurotically disturbed.”The dismayed orphans looked at their reflections, and their dismayed reflectionslooked back at them. For several moments, the Baudelaires stood and pondered themysterious way their lives were going, and they were thinking so hard about it thatthey jumped a little when somebody spoke.“You must be Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire,” the somebody said, and thechildren turned to see a very tall man with very short hair. He was wearing a brightblue vest and holding a peach. He smiled and walked toward them, but then frownedas he drew closer. “Why, you’re covered in pieces of bark,” he said. “I hope youhaven’t been hanging around the lumbermill. That can be very dangerous for smallchildren.”Violet looked at the peach, and wondered if she dared ask for a bite. “We’ve beenworking there all morning,” she said.The man frowned. “Working there?”Klaus looked at the peach, and had to stop himself from grabbing it right out of theman’s hand. “Yes,” he said. “We received your instructions and went right to work.Today was a new log day.”The man scratched his head. “Instructions?” he asked. “What in the world are youtalking about?”Sunny looked at the peach, and it was all she could do not to leap up and sink herteeth right into it. “Molub!” she shrieked, which must have meant something like “We’retalking about the typed note that told us to go to work at the lumbermill!”“Well, I don’t understand how three people as young as yourselves were put towork in the lumbermill, but please accept my humblest apologies, and let me tell youthat it will not happen again. Why, you’re children, for goodness’ sake! You will betreated as members of the family!”The orphans looked at one another. Could it be that their horrible experiences inPaltryville were just a mistake? “You mean we don’t have to debark any more logs?”Violet asked.“Of course not,” the man said. “I can’t believe you were even allowed inside.Why, there are some nasty machines in there. I’m going to speak to your newguardian about it immediately.”“You’re not our new guardian?” Klaus asked.“Oh no,” the man said. “Forgive me for not introducing myself. My name isCharles, and it’s very nice to have the three of you here at Lucky SmellsLumbermill.”“It’s very nice to be here,” Violet lied politely.“I find that difficult to believe,” Charles said, “seeing as you’ve been forced towork in the mill, but let’s put that behind us and have a fresh start. Would you carefor a peach?”“They’ve had their lunch!” came a booming voice, and the orphans whirled aroundand stared at the man they saw. He was quite short, shorter than Klaus, and dressed ina suit made of a very shiny dark-green material that made him look more like areptile than a person. But what made them stare most was his face—or, rather, thecloud of smoke that was covering his face. The man was smoking a cigar, and thesmoke from the cigar covered his entire head. The cloud of smoke made theBaudelaire children very curious as to what his face really looked like, and you maybe curious as well, but you will have to take that curiosity to your grave, for I will tellyou now, before we go any further, that the Baudelaires never saw this man’s face,and neither did I, and neither will you.“Oh, hello, sir,” Charles said. “I was just meeting the Baudelaire children. Did youknow they had arrived?”“Of course I knew they arrived,” the smoke-faced man said. “I’m not an idiot.”“No, of course not,” Charles said. “But were you aware that they were put to workin the lumbermill? On a new log day, no less! I was just explaining to them what aterrible mistake that was.”“It wasn’t a mistake,” the man said. “I don’t make mistakes, Charles. I’m not anidiot.” He turned so the cloud of smoke faced the children. “Hello, Baudelaireorphans. I thought we should lay eyes on one another.”“Batex!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “But we’re not laying eyes onone another!”“I have no time to talk about that,” the man said. “I see you’ve met Charles. He’smy partner. We split everything fifty-fifty, which is a good deal. Don’t you think so?”“I guess so,” Klaus said. “I don’t know very much about the lumber business.”“Oh, yes,” Charles said. “Of course I think it’s a good deal.”“Well,” the man said, “I want to give you three a good deal as well. Now, I heardabout what happened to your parents, which is really too bad. And I heard all aboutthis Count Olaf fellow, who sounds like quite a jerk, and those odd-looking peoplewho work for him. So when Mr. Poe gave me a call, I worked out a deal. The deal isthis: I will try to make sure that Count Olaf and his associates never go anywherenear you, and you will work in my lumbermill until you come of age and get all thatmoney. Is that a fair deal?”The Baudelaire orphans did not answer this question, because it seemed to themthe answer was obvious. A fair deal, as everyone knows, is when both people givesomething of more or less equal value. If you were bored with playing with yourchemistry set, and you gave it to your brother in exchange for his dollhouse, thatwould be a fair deal. If someone offered to smuggle me out of the country in hersailboat, in exchange for free tickets to an ice show, that would be a fair deal. Butworking for years in a lumbermill in exchange for the owner’s trying to keep CountOlaf away is an enormously unfair deal, and the three youngsters knew it.“Oh, sir,” Charles said, smiling nervously at the Baudelaires. “You can’t beserious. A lumbermill is no place for small children to work.”“Of course it is,” the man said. He reached a hand up into his cloud to scratch anitch somewhere on his face. “It will teach them responsibility. It will teach them thevalue of work. And it will teach them how to make flat wooden boards out of trees.”“Well, you probably know best,” Charles said, shrugging.“But we could read about all of those things,” Klaus said, “and learn about themthat way.”“That’s true, sir,” Charles said. “They could study in the library. They seem verywell behaved, and I’m sure they would cause no trouble.”“Your library!” the man said sharply. “What nonsense! Don’t listen to Charles, youchildren. My partner has insisted that we create a library for the employees at themill, and so I let him. But it is no substitute for hard work.”“Please, sir,” Violet pleaded. “At least let our little sister stay in the dormitory.She’s only a baby.”“I have offered you a very good deal,” the man said. “As long as you stay withinthe gates of the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, this Count Olaf will not come near you. Inaddition, I’m giving you a place to sleep, a nice hot dinner, and a stick of gum forlunch. And all you have to do in return is a few years’ work. That sounds like a prettygood deal to me. Well, it was nice to meet you. Unless you have any questions, I’ll begoing now. My pizza is getting cold, and if there’s one thing I hate it’s a cold lunch.”“I have a question,” Violet said, although the truth of the matter is she had manyquestions. Most of them began with the phrase “How can you.” “How can you forcesmall children to work in a lumbermill?” was one of them. “How can you treat us sohorridly, after all we’ve been through?” was another. And then there was “How canyou pay your employees in coupons instead of money?” and “How can you feed usonly gum for lunch?” and “How can you stand to have a cloud of smoke coveringyour face?” But none of these seemed like questions that were proper to ask, at leastnot out loud. So Violet looked her new guardian right in his cloud and asked, “Whatis your name?”“Never mind what my name is,” the man said. “No one can pronounce it anyway.Just call me Sir.”“I’ll show the children to the door, Sir,” Charles said quickly, and with a wave ofhis hand, the owner of the Lucky Smells Lumber-mill was gone. Charles waitednervously for a moment, to make sure Sir was far enough away. Then he leaned in tothe children and handed them the peach. “Never mind what he said about youralready having your lunch,” he said. “Have this peach.”“Oh, thank you,” Klaus cried, and hurriedly divided the peach among himself andhis siblings, giving the biggest piece to Sunny because she hadn’t even had her gum.A Series of Unfortunate Events 4 - TheMiserable MillThe Baudelaire children wolfed down the peach, and under normal circumstancesit would not have been polite to eat something so quickly and so noisily, particularlyin front of someone they did not know very well. But these circumstances were not atall normal, so even a manners expert would excuse them for their gobbling.“You know,” Charles said, “because you seem like such nice children, and becauseyou’ve worked so very hard today, I’m going to do something for you. Can you guesswhat it is?”“Talk to Sir,” Violet said, wiping peach juice off her chin, “and convince him thatwe shouldn’t work in the lumbermill?”“Well, no,” Charles admitted. “That wouldn’t do any good. He won’t listen to me.”“But you’re his partner,” Klaus pointed out.“That doesn’t matter,” Charles replied. “When Sir has made up his mind, he hasmade up his mind. I know he sometimes is a little bit mean, but you’ll have to excusehim. He had a very terrible childhood. Do you understand?”Violet looked at the painting of the seashore, and thought once again of thatdreadfulday at the beach. “Yes,” she sighed. “I understand. I think I’m having a very terriblechildhood myself.”“Well, I know what will make you feel better,” Charles said, “at least a little bit.Let me show you the library before you go back to work. Then you can visit itwhenever you want. Come on, it’s right down the hall.”Charles led the Baudelaires down the hallway, and even though they would soonbe back at work, even though they had been offered one of the least fair deals everoffered to children, the three siblings felt a little bit better. Whether it was UncleMonty’s library of reptile books, or Aunt Josephine’s library of grammar books, orJustice Strauss’s library of law books, or, best of all, their parents’ library of all kindsof books—all burned up now, alas— libraries always made them feel a little bitbetter. Just knowing that they could read made the Baudelaire orphans feel as if theirwretched lives could be a little brighter. At the end of a hallway was a little door, andCharles stopped at the door, smiled at the children, and opened the door. The librarywas a large room, and it was filled with elegant wooden bookshelves andcomfortable-looking sofas on which to sit and read. On one wall was a row ofwindows, which let in more than enough light for reading, and on the other wall wasa row of landscape paintings, perfect for resting one’s eyes. The Baudelaire childrenstepped inside the room and took a good look around. But they did not feel anybetter, not at all.“Where are the books?” Klaus asked. “All these elegant bookshelves are empty.”“That’s the only thing wrong with this library,” Charles admitted. “Sir wouldn’tgive me any money to buy books.”“You mean there are no books at all?” Violet asked.“Just three,” Charles said, and walked to the farthest bookshelf. There, on thebottom shelf, were three books sitting all by themselves. “Without money, of course,it was difficult to acquire any books, but I did have three books donated. Sir donatedhis book, The History of Lucky Smells Lumbermill. The mayor of Paltryvilledonated this book, The Paltryville Constitution. And here’s Advanced OcularScience, donated by Dr. Orwell, a doctor who lives in town.”Charles held up the three books to show the Baudelaires what each one lookedlike, and the children stared in dismay and fear. The History of Lucky SmellsLumbermill’ had a painting of Sir on the cover, with a cloud of smoke covering hisface. The Paltryville Constitution had a photograph of the Paltryville post office, withthe old shoe dangling from the flagpole in front. But it was the cover of AdvancedOcular Science that made the Baudelaire children stare. You have heard, many timesI’m sure, that you should not judge a book by its cover. But just as it is difficult tobelieve that a man who is not a doctor wearing a surgical mask and a white wig willturn out to be a charming person, it was difficult for the children to believe thatAdvanced Ocular Science was going to cause them anything but trouble. The word“ocular,” you might not know, means “related to the eye,” but even if you didn’tknow this you could figure it out from the cover. For printed on the cover was animage that the children recognized. They recognized it from their own nightmares,and from personal experience. It was an image of an eye, and the Baudelaire orphansrecognized it as the mark of Count Olaf.the pit part of the peach, but Sunny was very hungry, and liked to eat hard things, sothe pit ended up in her stomach along with the parts of the fruit that you or I might findmore suitable. But the pit in the Baudelaire stomachs was not so much from the snack thatCharles had given them but from an overall feeling of doom. They were certain that CountOlaf was lurking nearby, like some predator waiting to pounce on the children while theyweren’t looking.So each morning, when Foreman Flacutono clanged his pots together to wakeeveryone up, the Baudelaires took a good look at him to see if Count Olaf had takenhis place. It would have been just like Count Olaf to put a white wig on his head anda surgical mask over his face, and snatch the Baudelaires right out of their bunk. ButForeman Flacutono always had the same dark and beady eyes, which didn’t look athing like Count Olaf’s shiny ones, and he always spoke in his rough, muffled voice,which was the opposite of the smooth, snarly voice of Count Olaf. When the childrenwalked across the dirt-floored courtyard to the lumbermill, they took a good look attheir fellow employees. It would have been just like Count Olaf to get himself hiredas an employee, and snatch the orphans away while Foreman Flacutono wasn’tlooking. But although all the workers looked tired, and sad, and hungry, none of themlooked evil, or greedy, or had such awful manners.And as the orphans performed the backbreaking labor of the lumbermill—theword “back-breaking” here means “so difficult and tiring that it felt like the orphans’backs were breaking, even though they actually weren’t”—they wondered if CountOlaf would use one of the enormous machines to somehow get his hands on theirfortune. But that didn’t seem to be the case, either. After a few days of tearing thebark off the trees, the debarkers were put back in their corner, and the giant pinchermachine was turned off. Next, the workers had to pick up the barkless treesthemselves, one by one, and hold them against the buzzing circular saw until it hadsliced each tree into flat boards. The youngsters’ arms were soon achy and covered insplinters from lifting all of the logs, but Count Olaf did not take advantage of theirweakened arms to kidnap them. After a few days of sawing, Foreman Flacutonoordered Phil to start up the machine with the enormous ball of string inside. Themachine wrapped the string around small bundles of boards, and the employees hadto gather around and tie the string into very complicated knots, to hold the bundlestogether. The siblings’ fingers were soon so sore that they could scarcely hold thecoupons they were given each day, but Count Olaf did not try to force them tosurrender their fortune. Day after dreary day went by, and although the children wereconvinced that he must be somewhere nearby, Count Olaf simply did not show up. Itwas very puzzling.“It is very puzzling,” Violet said one day, during their gum break. “Count Olaf issimply nowhere to be found.”“I know,” Klaus said, rubbing his right thumb, which was the sorest. “Thatbuilding looks like his tattoo, and so does that book cover. But Count Olaf himselfhasn’t shown his face.”“Elund!” Sunny said thoughtfully. She probably meant something like “It iscertainly perplexing.”Violet snapped her fingers, frowning because it hurt. “I’ve thought of something,”she said. “Klaus, you just said he hasn’t shown his face. Maybe he’s Sir, in disguise.We can’t tell what Sir really looks like because of that cloud of smoke. Count Olafcould have dressed in a green suit and taken up smoking just to fool us.”“I thought of that, too,” Klaus said. “But he’s much shorter than Count Olaf, and Idon’t know how you can disguise yourself as a much shorter person.”“Chorn!” Sunny pointed out, which meant something like “And his voice soundsnothing like Count Olaf’s.”“That’s true,” Violet said, and gave Sunny a small piece of wood that was sittingon the floor. Because babies should not have gum, Sunny’s older siblings gave herthese small tree scraps during the lunch break. Sunny did not eat the wood, of course,but she chewed on it and pretended it was a carrot, or an apple, or a beef and cheeseenchilada, all of which she loved.“It might just be that Count Olaf hasn’t found us,” Klaus said. “After all,Paltryville is in the middle of nowhere. It could take him years to track us down.”“Pelli!” Sunny exclaimed, which meant something like “But that doesn’t explainthe eye-shaped building, or the cover of the book!”“Those things could just be coincidence,” Violet admitted. “We’re so scared ofCount Olaf that maybe we’re just thinking we’re seeing him everywhere. Maybe hewon’t show up. Maybe we really are safe here.”“That’s the spirit,” said Phil, who had been sitting near them all this time. “Lookon the bright side. Lucky Smells Lumbermill might not be your favorite place, but atleast there’s no sign of this Olaf guy you keep talking about. This might turn out to bethe most fortunate part of your lives.”“I admire your optimism,” Klaus said, smiling at Phil.“Me too,” Violet said.“Tenpa,” Sunny agreed.“That’s the spirit,” Phil said again, and stood up to stretch his legs. The Baudelaireorphans nodded, but looked at one another out of the corners of their eyes. It was truethat Count Olaf hadn’t shown up, or at least he hadn’t shown up yet. But theirsituation was far from fortunate. They had to wake up to the clanging of pots, and beordered around by Foreman Flacutono. They only had gum—or, in Sunny’s case,imaginary enchiladas—for lunch. And worst of all, working in the lumbermill was soexhausting that they didn’t have the energy to do anything else. Even though she wasnear complicated machines every day, Violet hadn’t even thought about inventingsomething for a very long time. Even though Klaus was free to visit Charles’s librarywhenever he wanted to, he hadn’t even glanced at any of the three books. And eventhough there were plenty of hard things around to bite, Sunny hadn’t closed hermouth around more than a few of them. The children missed studying reptiles withUncle Monty. They missed living over Lake Lachrymose with Aunt Josephine. Andmost of all, of course, they missed living with their parents, which was where, afterall, they truly belonged.“Well,” Violet said, after a pause, “we’ll only have to work here for a few years.Then I will be of age, and we can use some of the Baudelaire fortune. I’d like to buildan inventing studio for myself, perhaps over Lake Lachrymose , where AuntJosephine’s house used to be, so we can always remember her.”“And I’d like to build a library,” Klaus said, “that would be open to the public.And I’ve always hoped that we could buy back Uncle Monty’s reptile collection, andtake care of all the reptiles.”“Dole!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “And I could be a dentist!”“What in the world does ‘Dole’ mean?”The orphans looked up and saw that Charles had come into the lumbermill. Hewas smiling at them and taking something out of his pocket.“Hello, Charles,” Violet said. “It’s nice to see you. What have you been up to?”“Ironing Sir’s shirts,” Charles answered. “He has a lot of shirts, and he’s too busyto iron them himself. I’ve been meaning to come by, but the ironing took a long time.I brought you some beef jerky. I was afraid to take more than a little bit, because Sirwould know that it was missing, but here you go.”“Thank you very much,” Klaus said politely. “We’ll share this with the otheremployees.”“Well, O.K.,” Charles said, “but last week they got a coupon for thirty percent offbeef jerky, so they probably bought plenty of it.”“Maybe they did,” Violet said, knowing full well that there was no way any of theworkers could afford beef jerky. “Charles, we’ve been meaning to ask you about oneof the books in your library. You know the one with the eye on the cover? Where didyou—”Violet’s question was interrupted by the sound of Foreman Flacutono’s pots beingbanged together. “Back to work!” he shouted. “Back to work! We have to finish tyingthe bundles today, so there’s no time for chitchat!” “I would just like to talk to thesechildren for a few more minutes, Foreman Flacutono,” Charles said. “Surely we canextend the lunch break just a little bit.”“Absolutely not!” Foreman Flacutono said, striding over to the orphans. “I havemy orders from Sir, and I intend to carry them out. Unless you’d like to tell Sir that—”“Oh, no,” Charles said quickly, backing away from Foreman Flacutono. “I don’tthink that’s necessary.”“Good,” the foreman said shortly. “Now get up, midgets! Lunch is over!”The children sighed and stood up. They had long ago given up trying to convinceForeman Flacutono that they weren’t midgets. They waved good-bye to Charles, andwalked slowly to the waiting bundle of boards, with Foreman Flacutono walkingbehind them, and at that moment one of the children had a trick played on him whichI hope has never been played on you. This trick involves sticking your foot out infront of a person who is walking, so the person trips and falls on the ground. Apoliceman did it to me once, when I was carrying a crystal ball belonging to a Gypsyfortune-teller who never forgave me for tumbling to the ground and shattering herball into hundreds of pieces. It is a mean trick, and it is easy to do, and I’m sorry tosay that Foreman Flacutono did it to Klaus right at this moment. Klaus fell right tothe ground of the lumbermill, his glasses falling off his face and skittering over to thebundle of boards.“Hey!” Klaus said. “You tripped me!” One of the most annoying aspects of thissort of trick is that the person who does it usually pretends not to know what you’retalking about. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Foreman Flacutono said.Klaus was too annoyed to argue. He stood up, and Violet walked over to fetch hisglasses. But when she leaned over to pick them up, she saw at once that somethingwas very, very wrong. “Rotup!” Sunny shrieked, and she spoke the truth. WhenKlaus’s glasses had skittered across the room, they had scraped against the floor andhit the boards rather hard. Violet picked the glasses up, and they looked like a pieceof modern sculpture a friend of mine made long ago. The sculpture was calledTwisted, Cracked, and Hopelessly Broken.“My brother’s glasses!” Violet cried. “They’re twisted, and cracked! They’rehopelessly broken, and he can scarcely see anything without them!”“Too bad for you,” Foreman Flacutono said, shrugging at Klaus.“Oh, don’t be ridiculous,” Charles said. “He needs a replacement pair, ForemanFlacutono. A child could see that.”“Not me,” Klaus said. “I can scarcely see anything.”“Well, take my arm,” Charles said. “There’s no way you can work in a lumbermillwithout being able to see what you’re doing. I’ll take you to the eye doctor rightaway.”“Oh, thank you,” Violet said, relieved.“Is there an eye doctor nearby?” Klaus asked.“Oh yes,” Charles replied. “The closest one is Dr. Orwell, who wrote that bookyou were talking about. Dr. Orwell’s office is just outside the doors of the mill. I’msure you noticed it on your way here—it’s made to look like a giant eye. Come on,Klaus.”“Oh, no, Charles!” Violet said. “Don’t take him there!”Charles cupped a hand to his ear. “What did you say?” he shouted. Phil had flippeda switch on the string machine, and the ball of string had begun to spin inside itscage, making a loud whirring sound as the employees got back to work.“That building has the mark of Count Olaf!” Klaus shouted, but ForemanFlacutono had begun to clang his pots together, and Charles shook his head toindicate he couldn’t hear.“Yoryar!” Sunny shrieked, but Charles just shrugged and led Klaus out of the mill.The two Baudelaire sisters looked at one another. The whirring sound continued,and Foreman Flacutono kept on clanging his pots, but that wasn’t the loudest soundthat the two girls heard. Louder than the machine, louder than the pots, was the soundof their own furiously beating hearts as Charles took their brother away.C H A P T E RSix“I tell you, you have nothing to worry about,” Phil said, as Violet and Sunnypicked at their casserole. It was dinnertime, but Klaus had still not returned from Dr.Orwell’s, and the young Baudelaire women were worried sick. After work, whilewalking across the dirty courtyard with their fellow employees, Violet and Sunny hadpeered worriedly at the wooden gate that led out to Paltryville, and were dismayed tosee no sign of Klaus. When they arrived at the dormitory, Violet and Sunny lookedout the window to watch for him, and they were so anxious that it took them severalminutes to realize that the window was not a real one, but one drawn on the blankwall with a ballpoint pen. Then they went out and sat on the doorstep, looking out atthe empty courtyard, until Phil called them in to supper. And now it was getting ontoward bedtime, and not only had their brother still not returned, but Phil wasinsisting that they had nothing to worry about.“I think we do, Phil,” Violet said. “I think we do have something to worry about.Klaus has been gone all afternoon, and Sunny and I are worried that something mighthave happened to him. Something awful.”“Becer!” Sunny agreed.“I know that doctors can seem scary to young children,” Phil said, “but doctors areyour friends, and they can’t hurt you.”Violet looked at Phil and saw that their conversation would go nowhere. “You’reright,” she said tiredly, even though he was quite wrong. As anyone who’s ever beento a doctor knows, doctors are not necessarily your friends, any more than maildeliverers are your friends, or butchers are your friends, or refrigerator repair-peopleare your friends. A doctor is a man or woman whose job it is to make you feel better,that’s all, and if you’ve ever had a shot you know that the statement “Doctors can’thurt you” is simply absurd. Violet and Sunny, of course, were worried that Dr. Orwellhad some connection with Count Olaf, not that their brother would get a shot, but itwas useless to try to explain such things to an optimist. So they merely picked at theircasserole and waited for their brother until it was time for bed.“Dr. Orwell must have fallen behind in his appointments,” Phil said, as Violet andSunny tucked themselves into the bottom bunk. “His waiting room must beabsolutely full.”“Suski,” Sunny said sadly, which meant something along the lines of “I hope so,Phil.”Phil smiled at the two Baudelaires and turned out the lights in the dormitory. Theemployees whispered to each other for a few minutes, and then were quiet, andbefore too long Violet and Sunny were surrounded by the sound of snores. Thechildren did not sleep, of course, but stared out into the dark room with a growingfeeling of dismay. Sunny made a squeaky, sad noise, like the closing of a door, andViolet took her sister’s fingers, which were sore from tying knots all day long, andblew on them gently. But even as the Baudelaire fingers felt better, the Baudelairesisters did not. They lay together on the bunk and tried to imagine where Klaus couldbe and what was happening to him. But one of the worst things about Count Olaf isthat his evil ways are so despicable that it is impossible to imagine what would be uphis sleeve next. Count Olaf had done so many horrible deeds, all to get his hands onthe Baudelaire fortune, that Violet and Sunny could scarcely bear to think what mightbe happening to their brother. The evening grew later and later, and the two siblingsbegan to imagine more and more terrible things that could be happening to Klauswhile they lay helpless in the dormitory.“Stintamcunu,” Sunny whispered finally, and Violet nodded. They had to go andlook for him.The expression “quiet as mice” is a puzzling one, because mice can often be verynoisy, so people who are being quiet as mice may in fact be squeaking andscrambling around. The expression “quiet as mimes” is more appropriate, becausemimes are people who perform theatrical routines without making a sound. Mimesare annoying and embarrassing, but they are much quieter than mice, so “quiet asmimes” is a more proper way to describe how Violet and Sunny got up from theirbunk, tiptoed across the dormitory, and walked out into the night.There was a full moon that night, and the children gazed for a moment at the quietcourtyard. The moonlight made the dirt floor look as strange and eerie as the surfaceof the moon. Violet picked Sunny up, and the two of them crossed the courtyardtoward the heavy wooden gate leading out of the lumbermill. The only sound was thesoft shuffling of Violet’s feet. The orphans could not remember when they had beenin a place that felt so quiet and still, which is why the sudden creaking sound madethem jump in surprise. The creaking sound was as noisy as mice, and seemed to becoming from straight ahead. Violet and Sunny stared out into the gloom, and withanother creak the wooden gate swung open and revealed the short figure of a person,walking slowly toward them.“Klaus!” Sunny said, for one of the few regular words she used was the name ofher brother. And to her relief, Violet saw that it was indeed Klaus who was walkingtoward them. He had on a new pair of glasses that looked just like his old ones,except they were so new that they shone in the moonlight. He gave his sisters a dazedand distant smile, as if they were people he did not know so well.“Klaus, we were so worried about you,” Violet said, hugging her brother as hereached them. “You were gone for so long. Whatever happened to you?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said, so quietly that his sisters had to lean forward to hearhim. “I can’t remember.”“Did you see Count Olaf?” Violet asked. “Was Dr. Orwell working with him? Didthey do anything to you?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said, shaking his head. “I remember breaking my glasses,and I remember Charles taking me to the eye-shaped building. But I don’t rememberanything else. I scarcely remember where I am right now.”“Klaus,” Violet said firmly, “you are at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill inPaltryville. Surely you remember that.”Klaus did not answer. He merely looked at his sisters with wide, wide eyes, as ifthey were an interesting aquarium or a parade.“Klaus?” Violet asked. “I said, you are at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill.”Klaus still did not answer.“He must be very tired,” Violet said to Sunny.“Libu,” Sunny said doubtfully.“You’d better get to bed, Klaus,” Violet said. “Follow me.”At last, Klaus spoke. “Yes, sir,” he said, quietly.“Sir?” Violet repeated. “I’m not a sir—I’m your sister!”But Klaus was silent once more, and Violet gave up. Still carrying Sunny, shewalked back toward the dormitory, and Klaus shuffled behind her. The moon shoneon his new glasses, and his steps made little clouds of dirt, but he didn’t say a word.Quiet as mimes, the Baudelaires walked back into the dormitory and tiptoed to theirbunk bed. But when they reached it, Klaus merely stood nearby and stared at his twosiblings, as if he had forgotten how to go to bed.“Lie down, Klaus,” Violet said gently.“Yes, sir,” Klaus replied, and lay down on the bottom bunk, still staring at hissisters. Violet sat on the edge of the bunk and removed Klaus’s shoes, which he hadforgotten to take off, but it seemed that he did not even notice.“We’ll discuss things in the morning,” Violet whispered. “In the meantime, Klaus,try to get some sleep.”“Yes, sir,” Klaus said, and immediately shut his eyes. In a second he was fastasleep.Violet and Sunny watched the way his mouth quivered, just as it had always donewhen he was asleep, ever since he was a tiny baby. It was a relief to have Klaus backwith them, of course, but the Baudelaire sisters did not feel relieved, not one bit.They had never seen their brother act so strangely. For the rest of the night, Violetand Sunny huddled together on the top bunk, peering down and watching Klaussleep. No matter how much they looked at him, it still felt like their brother had notreturned.but in the morning the tube of wart-removal cream would still be sitting there next toyour uneaten birthday cake, and you would feel as miserable as ever. My chauffeur oncetold me that I would feel better in the morning, but when I woke up the two of us were stillon a tiny island surrounded by man-eating crocodiles, and, as I’m sure you canunderstand, I didn’t feel any better about it.And so it was with the Baudelaire orphans. As soon as Foreman Flacutono beganclanging his pots together, Klaus opened his eyes and asked where in the world hewas, and Violet and Sunny did not feel better at all.“What is wrong with you, Klaus?” Violet asked.Klaus looked at Violet carefully, as if they had met once, years ago, and he hadforgotten her name. “I don’t know,” he said. “I’m having trouble remembering things.What happened yesterday?”“That’s what we want to ask you, Klaus,”Violet said, but she was interrupted by their rude employer.“Get up, you lazy midgets!” Foreman Flacutono shouted, walking over to theBaudelaire bunk and clanging his pots together again. “The Lucky SmellsLumbermill has no time for dawdling! Get out of bed this instant and go straight towork!”Klaus’s eyes grew very wide, and he sat up in bed. In an instant he was walkingtoward the door of the dormitory, without a word to his sisters.“That’s the spirit!” Foreman Flacutono said, and clanged his pots together again.“Now everybody! On to the lumbermill!”Violet and Sunny looked at one another and hurried to follow their brother and theother employees, but Violet took one step, and something made her stop. On the floornext to the Baudelaire bunk were Klaus’s shoes, which she had removed the nightbefore. Klaus had not even put them on before walking outside.“His shoes!” Violet said, picking them up. “Klaus, you forgot your shoes!” She ranafter him, but Klaus did not even look back. By the time Violet reached the door, herbrother was walking barefoot across the courtyard.“Grummle?” Sunny called after him, but he did not answer.“Come on, children,” Phil said. “Let’s hurry to the lumbermill.”“Phil, there’s something wrong with my brother,” Violet said, watching Klausopen the door of the lumbermill and lead the other employees inside. “He scarcelysays a word to us, he doesn’t seem to remember anything, and look! He didn’t put onhis shoes this morning!”“Well, look on the bright side,” Phil said. “We’re supposed to finish tying today,and next we do the stamping. Stamping is the easiest part of the lumber business.”“I don’t care about the lumber business!” Violet cried. “Something is wrong withKlaus!”“Let’s not make trouble, Violet,” Phil said, and walked off toward the lumbermill.Violet and Sunny looked at one another helplessly. They had no choice but tofollow Phil across the courtyard and into the mill. Inside, the string machine wasalready whirring, and the employees were beginning to tie up the last few batches ofboards. Violet and Sunny hurried to get a place next to Klaus, and for the next fewhours they tied knots and tried to talk to their brother. But it was difficult to speak tohim over the whirring of the string machine and the clanging of Foreman Flacutono’spots, and Klaus never answered them. Finally, the last pile of boards was tiedtogether, and Phil turned off the string machine, and everybody received their gum.Violet and Sunny each grabbed one of Klaus’s arms and dragged their barefootedbrother to a corner of the mill to talk to him.“Klaus, Klaus, please talk to me,” Violet cried. “You’re frightening us. You’ve gotto tell us what Dr. Orwell did, so we can help you.”Klaus simply stared at his sister with widened eyes.“Eshan!” Sunny shrieked. Klaus did not say a word. He did not even put his guminto his mouth. Violet and Sunny sat down beside him, confused and frightened, andput their arms around their brother as though they were afraid he was floating away.They sat there like that, a heap of Baudelaires, until Foreman Flacutono clanged hispots together to signal the end of the break.“Stamping time!” Foreman Flacutono said, pushing his stringy white wig out ofhis eyes. “Everybody line up for stamping. And you” he said, pointing to Klaus.“You, you lucky midget, will be operating the machine. Come over here so I can giveyou instructions.”“Yes, sir,” Klaus said, in a quiet voice, and his sisters gasped in surprise. It was thefirst time he had spoken since they were in the dormitory. Without another word hestood up, disentangled himself from his siblings, and walked toward ForemanFlacutono while his sisters looked on amazedly.Violet turned to her baby sister and brushed a small scrap of string out of her hair,something her mother used to do all the time. The eldest Baudelaire remembered, asshe had remembered so many times, the promise she had made to her parents whenSunny was born. “You are the eldest Baudelaire child,” her parents had said. “And asthe eldest, it will always be your responsibility to look after your younger siblings.Promise us that you will always watch out for them and make sure they don’t get intotrouble.” Violet knew, of course, that her parents had never guessed, when they toldher this, that the sort of trouble her siblings would get into would be so ostentatiously—a word which here means “really, really”— horrendous, but still she felt as if shehad let her parents down. Klaus was clearly in trouble, and Violet could not shake thefeeling that it was her responsibility to get him out of it.Foreman Flacutono whispered something to Klaus, who walked slowly over to themachine covered in smokestacks and began to operate its controls. ForemanFlacutono nodded to Klaus and clanged his pots together again. “Let the stampingbegin!” he said, in his terrible muffled voice. The Baudelaires had no idea whatForeman Flacutono meant by stamping, and thought maybe it involved jumping upand down on the boards for some reason, like stamping on ants. But it turned out tobe more like stamping a library book. The workers would lift a bundle of boards andplace it on a special mat, and the machine would bring its huge, flat stone down ontop of the boards with a thunderous stamp!, leaving a label in red ink that said“Lucky Smells Lumbermill.” Then everyone had to blow on the stamp so it driedquickly. Violet and Sunny couldn’t help wondering if people who would make theirhouses out of these boards would mind having the name of the lumbermill written onthe walls of their homes. But, more important, they couldn’t help wondering howKlaus knew how to work the stamping machine, and why Foreman Flacutono washaving their brother at the controls, instead of Phil or one of the other employees.“You see?” Phil told the Baudelaire sisters, from across a bundle of boards.“There’s nothing wrong with Klaus. He’s working the machine perfectly. You spentall that time worrying for nothing.”Stamp!“Maybe,” Violet said doubtfully, blowing on the M in “Lumbermill.”“And I told you that stamping was the easiest part of the lumbermill industry,” Philsaid. Stamp! “Your lips get a little sore from all the blowing, but that’s all.”“Wiro,” Sunny said, which meant something like “That’s true, but I’m still worriedabout Klaus.”“That’s the spirit,” said Phil, misunderstanding her. “I told you that if you justlooked on the bright side—”Stam —crash—aah !Phil fell to the floor in midsentence, his face pale and sweaty. Of all the terriblenoises to be heard at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, this one was the most terrible byfar. The thunderous stamping sound had been cut off by a wrenching crash and apiercing shriek. The stamping machine had gone horribly wrong, and the huge flatstone had not been brought down where it was supposed to be brought down, on thebundle of boards. Most of the stone had been brought down on the string machine,which was now hopelessly smashed. But part of it had been brought down on Phil’sleg.Foreman Flacutono dropped his pots and ran over to the controls of the stampingmachine, pushing the dazed Klaus aside. With a flip of the switch he brought thestone up again, and everyone gathered around to see the damage. The cage part of thestring machine was split open like an egg, and the string had become completelyentwined and entangled. And I simply cannot describe the grotesque and unnervingsight—the words “grotesque” and “unnerving” here mean “twisted, tangled, stained,and gory”—of poor Phil’s leg. It made Violet’s and Sunny’s stomachs turn to gazeupon it, but Phil looked up and gave them a weak smile.“Well,” he said, “this isn’t too bad. My left leg is broken, but at least I’m rightlegged. That’s pretty fortunate.”“Gee,” one of the other employees murmured. “I thought he’d say something morealong the lines of ‘Aaaaah! My leg! My leg!’”“If someone could just help me get to my foot,” Phil said, “I’m sure that I can getback to work.”“Don’t be ridiculous,” Violet said. “You need to go to a hospital.”“Yes, Phil,” another worker said. “We have those coupons from last month, fiftypercent off a cast at the Ahab Memorial Hospital . Two of us will chip in and get yourleg all fixed up. I’ll call for an ambulance right away.”Phil smiled. “That’s very kind of you,” he said.“This is a disaster!” Foreman Flacutono shouted. “This is the worst accident in thehistory of the lumbermill!”“No, no,” Phil said. “It’s fine. I’ve never liked my left leg so much, anyway.”“Not your leg, you overgrown midget,” Foreman Flacutono said impatiently. “Thestring machine! Those cost an inordinate amount of money!”“What does ‘inordinate’ mean?” somebody asked.“It means many things,” Klaus said suddenly, blinking. “It can mean ‘irregular.’ Itcan mean ‘immoderate.’ It can mean ‘disorderly.’ But in the case of money, it is morelikely to mean ‘excessive.’ Foreman Flacutono means that the string machine costs alot of money.”The two Baudelaire sisters looked at one another and almost laughed in relief.“Klaus!” Violet cried. “You’re defining things!”Klaus looked at his sisters and gave them a sleepy smile. “I guess I am,” he said.“Nojeemoo!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “Youappear to be back to normal,” and she was right. Klaus blinked again, and thenlooked at the mess he had caused.“What happened here?” he asked, frowning. “Phil, what happened to your leg?”“It’s perfectly all right,” Phil said, wincing in pain as he tried to move. “It’s just alittle sore.”“You mean you don’t remember what happened?” Violet asked.“What happened when?” Klaus asked, frowning. “Why, look! I’m not wearing anyshoes!”“Well, I certainly remember what happened!” Foreman Flacutono shouted,pointing at Klaus. “You smashed our machine! I will tell Sir about this right away!You’ve put a complete halt to the stamping process! Nobody will earn a singlecoupon today!”“That’s not fair!” Violet said. “It was an accident. And Klaus never should havebeen put in charge of that machine! He didn’t know how to use it!”“Well, he’d better learn,” Foreman Flacutono said. “Now pick up my pots, Klaus!”Klaus went over to pick up the pots, but halfway there Foreman Flacutono stuckhis foot out, playing the same trick he had played the previous day, and I’m sorry totell you that it worked just as well. Again, Klaus fell right to the ground of thelumbermill, and again, his glasses fell off his face and skittered over to the bundle ofboards, and worst of all, once again they became all twisted and cracked andhopelessly broken, like my friend Tatiana’s sculptures.“My glasses!” Klaus cried. “My glasses are broken again!”Violet got a funny feeling in her stomach, all quivery and slithery as if she hadeaten snakes, rather than gum, during the lunch break. “Are you sure?” she askedKlaus. “Are you sure you can’t wear them?”“I’m sure,” Klaus said miserably, holding them up for Violet to see.“Well, well, well,” Foreman Flacutono said. “How careless of you. I guess you’redue for another appointment with Dr. Orwell.”“We don’t want to bother him,” Violet said quickly. “If you give me some basicsupplies, I’m sure I can build some glasses myself.”“No, no,” the foreman said, his surgical mask curling into a frown. “You’d betterleave optometry to the experts. Say good-bye to your brother.”“Oh, no,” Violet said, desperately. She thought again of the promise she made toher parents. “We’ll take him! Sunny and I will bring him to Dr. Orwell.”“Derix!” Sunny shrieked, which clearly meant something along the lines of “If wecan’t prevent him from going to Dr. Orwell, at least we can go with him!”“Well, all right,” said Foreman Flacutono, and his beady little eyes grew evendarker than usual. “That’s a good idea, come to think of it. Why don’t all three of yougo see Dr. Orwell?”C H A P T E REightThe Baudelaire orphans stood outside the gates of the Lucky Smells Lumbermill andlooked at an ambulance rushing past them as it took Phil to the hospital. They looked atthe chewed-up gum letters of the lumbermill sign. And they looked down at the crackedpavement of Paltry-ville’s street. In short, they looked everywhere but at the eye-shapedbuilding.“We don’t have to go,” Violet said. “We could run away. We could hide until thenext train arrived, and take it as far as possible. We know how to work in alumbermill now, so we could get jobs in some other town.”“But what if he found us?” Klaus said, squinting at his sister. “Who would protectus from Count Olaf, if we were all by ourselves?”“We could protect ourselves,” Violet replied.“How can we protect ourselves,” Klaus asked, “when one of us is a baby andanother one can barely see?”“We’ve protected ourselves before,” Violet said.“Just barely,” Klaus replied. “We’ve just barely escaped from Count Olaf eachtime. We can’t run away and try to get along by ourselves, without glasses. We haveto go see Dr. Orwell and hope for the best.”Sunny gave a little shriek of fear. Violet, of course, was too old to shriek except inemergency situations, but she was not too old to be frightened. “We don’t know whatwill happen to us inside there,” she said, looking at the black door in the eye’s pupil.“Think, Klaus. Try to think. What happened to you when you went inside?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said miserably. “I remember trying to tell Charles not totake me to the eye doctor, but he kept telling me that doctors were my friends, andnot to be frightened.”“Ha!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Ha!”“And then what do you remember?” Violet asked.Klaus closed his eyes in thought. “I wish I could tell you. But it’s like that part ofmy brain has been wiped clean. It’s like I was asleep from the moment I walked intothat building until right there at the lumbermill.”“But you weren’t asleep,” Violet said. “You were walking around like a zombie.And then you caused that accident and hurt poor Phil.”“But I don’t remember those things,” Klaus said. “It’s as if I …” His voice trailedoff and he stared into space for a moment.“Klaus?” Violet asked worriedly.“… It’s as if I were hypnotized,” Klaus finished. He looked at Violet and then atSunny, and his sisters could see that he was figuring something out. “Of course.Hypnosis would explain everything.”“I thought hypnosis was only in scary movies,” Violet said.“Oh, no,” Klaus answered. “I read the Encyclopedia Hypnotica just last year. Itdescribed all these famous cases of hypnosis throughout history. There was anancient Egyptian king who was hypnotized. All the hypnotist had to do was shout‘Ramses!’ and the king would perform chicken imitations, even though he was infront of the royal court.”“That’s very interesting,” Violet said, “but—”“A Chinese merchant who lived during the Ling Dynasty was hypnotized. All thehypnotist had to do was shout ‘Mao!’ and the merchant would play the violin, eventhough he had never seen one before.”“These are amazing stories,” Violet said, “but—”“A man who lived in England in the nineteen twenties was hypnotized. All thehypnotist had to do was shout ‘Bloomsbury!’ and he suddenly became a brilliantwriter, even though he couldn’t read.”“Mazee!” Sunny shrieked, which probably meant “We don’t have time to hear allthese stories, Klaus!”Klaus grinned. “I’m sorry,” he said, “but it was a very interesting book, and I’m sopleased that it’s coming in handy.”“Well, what did the book say about how to stop yourself from being hypnotized?”Violet asked.Klaus’s grin faded. “Nothing,” he said.“Nothing?” Violet repeated. “An entire encyclopedia about hypnosis said nothingabout it at all?”“If it did, I didn’t read any of it. I thought the parts about the famous hypnosiscases were the most interesting, so I read those, but I skipped some of the boringparts.”For the first time since they had walked out of the gates of the lumbermill, theBaudelaire orphans looked at the eye-shaped building, and the building looked backat them. To Klaus, of course, Dr. Orwell’s office just looked like a big blur, but to hissisters it looked like trouble. The round door, painted black to resemble the pupil ofthe eye, looked like a deep and endless hole, and the children felt as if they weregoing to fall into it.“I’m never skipping the boring parts of a book again,” Klaus said, and walkedcautiously toward the building.“You’re not going inside?” Violet said incredulously, a word which here means “ina tone of voice to indicate Klaus was being foolish.”“What else can we do?” Klaus said quietly. He began to feel along the side of thebuilding to find the door, and at this point in the story of the Baudelaire orphans, Iwould like to interrupt for a moment and answer a question I’m sure you are askingyourself. It is an important question, one which many, many people have asked many,many times, in many, many places all over the world. The Baudelaire orphans haveasked it, of course. Mr. Poe has asked it. I have asked it. My beloved Beatrice, beforeher untimely death, asked it, although she asked it too late. The question is: Where isCount Olaf?If you have been following the story of these three orphans since the verybeginning, then you know that Count Olaf is always lurking around these poorchildren, plotting and scheming to get his hands on the Baudelaire fortune. Withindays of the orphans’ arrival at a new place, Count Olaf and his nefarious assistants—the word “nefarious” here means “Baudelaire-hating”—are usually on the scene,sneaking around and committing dastardly deeds. And yet so far he has beennowhere to be found. So, as the three youngsters reluctantly head toward Dr. Orwell’soffice, I know you must be asking yourself where in the world this despicable villaincan be. The answer is: Very nearby.Violet and Sunny walked to the eye-shaped building and helped their brother upthe steps to the door, but before they could open it, the pupil swung open to reveal aperson in a long white coat with a name tag reading “Dr. Orwell.” Dr. Orwell was atall woman with blond hair pulled back from her head and fashioned into a tight, tightbun. She had big black boots on her feet, and was holding a long black cane with ashiny red jewel on the top.“Why hello, Klaus,” Dr. Orwell said, nodding formally at the Baudelaires. “Ididn’t expect to see you back so soon. Don’t tell me you broke your glasses again.”“Unfortunately, yes,” Klaus said.“That’s too bad,” Dr. Orwell said. “But you’re in luck. We have very fewappointments today, so come on in and I’ll do all the necessary tests.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another nervously. This wasn’t what theyhad expected at all. They expected Dr. Orwell to be a much more sinister figure—Count Olaf in disguise, for instance, or one of his terrifying associates. Theyexpected that they would be snatched inside the eye-shaped building, and perhapsnever return. Instead Dr. Orwell was a professional-looking woman who was politelyinviting them inside.“Come on,” she said, showing the way with her black cane. “Shirley, myreceptionist, made some cookies that you girls can eat in the waiting room while Imake Klaus’s glasses. It won’t take nearly as long as it did yesterday.”“Will Klaus be hypnotized?” Violet demanded.“Hypnotized?” Dr. Orwell repeated, smiling. “Goodness, no. Hypnosis is only inscary movies.”The children, of course, knew this was not true, but they figured if Dr. Orwellthought it was true then she probably wasn’t a hypnotist. Cautiously, they steppedinside the eye-shaped building and followed Dr. Orwell down a hallway decoratedwith medical certificates.“This way to the office,” she said. “Klaus tells me he’s quite a reader. Do you tworead as well?”“Oh yes,” Violet said. She was beginning to relax. “We read whenever we can.”“Have you ever encountered,” Dr. Orwell said, “in your reading, the expression‘Youcatch more flies with honey than with vinegar’?”“Tuzmo,” Sunny replied, which meant something along the lines of “I don’tbelieve so.”“I haven’t read too many books about flies,” Violet admitted.“Well, the expression doesn’t really have to do with flies,” Dr. Orwell explained.“It’s just a fancy way of saying that you’re more likely to get what you want byacting in a sweet way, like honey, rather than in a distasteful way, like vinegar.”“That’s interesting,” Klaus said, wondering why Dr. Orwell was bringing it up.“I suppose you’re wondering why I’m bringing it up,” Dr. Orwell said, pausing infront of a door marked “Waiting Room.” “But I think all will be clear to you in just amoment. Now, Klaus, follow me to the office, and you girls can wait in the waitingroom through this door.”The children hesitated.“It will just be a few moments,” Dr. Orwell said, and patted Sunny on the head.“Well, all right,” Violet said, and gave her brother a wave as he followed theoptometrist farther down the hallway. Violet and Sunny gave the door a push andwent inside the waiting room, and saw in an instant that Dr. Orwell was right. All wasclear to them in a moment. The waiting room was a small one, and it looked likemost waiting rooms. It had a sofa and a few chairs and a small table with oldmagazines stacked on it, and a receptionist sitting at a desk, just like waiting roomsthat you or I have been in. But when Violet and Sunny looked at the receptionist, theysaw something that I hope you have never seen in a waiting room. A nameplate onthe desk read “Shirley,” but this was no Shirley, even though the receptionist waswearing a palebrown dress and sensible beige shoes. For above the pale lipstick onShirley’s face, and below the blond wig on Shirley’s head, was a pair of shiny, shinyeyes that the two children recognized at once. Dr. Orwell, in behaving politely, hadbeen the honey, instead of the vinegar. The children, unfortunately, were the flies.And Count Olaf, sitting at the receptionist’s desk with an evil smile, had caught themat last.A Series of Unfortunate Events 4 - TheMiserable Millyou can see why those sorts of feelings might lead one into trouble. In the vastmajority of cases, however, getting into trouble has nothing to do with one’s self-esteem.It usually has much more to do with whatever is causing the trouble—a monster, a busdriver, a banana peel, killer bees, the school principal—than what you think of yourself.And so it was as Violet and Sunny Baudelaire stared at Count Olaf—or, as thenameplate on his desk said, Shirley. Violet and Sunny had a very healthy amount ofself-esteem. Violet knew she could do things correctly, because she had inventedmany devices that worked perfectly. Sunny knew she wasn’t boring, because hersiblings always took an interest in what she had to say. And both Baudelaire sistersknew that they weren’t ugly, because they could see their pleasant facial featuresreflected back at them, in the middle of Count Olaf’s shiny, shiny eyes. But it did notmatter that they thought these things, because they were trapped.“Why, hello there, little girls,” Count Olaf said in a ridiculously high voice, as ifhe were really a receptionist named Shirley instead of an evil man after theBaudelaire fortune. “What are your names?”“You know our names,” Violet said curtly, a word which here means “tired ofCount Olaf’s nonsense.” “That wig and that lipstick don’t fool us any more than yourpalebrown dress and sensible beige shoes. You’re Count Olaf.”“I’m afraid you’re mistaken,” Count Olaf said. “I’m Shirley. See this nameplate?”“Fiti!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “That nameplate doesn’t prove anything, ofcourse!”“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “You’re not Shirley just because you have a smallpiece of wood with your name on it.”“I’ll tell you why I’m Shirley,” Count Olaf said. “I’m Shirley because I would liketo be called Shirley, and it is impolite not to do so.”“I don’t care if we’re impolite,” Violet said, “to such a disgusting person asyourself.”Count Olaf shook his head. “But if you do something impolite to me” he said,“then I might do something impolite to you, like for instance tearing your hair outwith my bare hands.”Violet and Sunny looked at Count Olaf’s hands. They noticed for the first time thathe had grown his fingernails very long, and painted them bright pink as part of hisdisguise. The Baudelaire sisters looked at one another. Count Olaf’s nails looked verysharp indeed.“O.K., Shirley,” Violet said. “You’ve been lurking around Paltryville since wearrived, haven’t you?”Shirley lifted a hand to pat her wig into place. “Maybe,” she said, still in herfoolish high voice.“And you’ve been hiding out in the eye-shaped building this whole time, haven’tyou?” Violet said.Shirley batted her eyes, and Violet and Sunny noticed that beneath her one longeyebrow— another identifying mark of Count Olaf—she was wearing long falseeyelashes. “Perhaps,” she said.“And you’re in cahoots with Dr. Orwell!” Violet said, using a phrase which heremeans “working with, in order to capture the Baudelaire fortune.” “Aren’t you?”“Possibly,” Shirley said, crossing her legs and revealing long white stockingsimprinted with the pattern of an eye.“Popinsh!” Sunny shrieked.“Sunny means,” Violet said, “that Dr. Orwell hypnotized Klaus and caused thatterrible accident, didn’t she?”“Conceivably,” Shirley said.“And he’s being hypnotized again, right now, isn’t he?” Violet asked.“It’s within the bounds of the imagination,” Shirley said.Violet and Sunny looked at one another, their hearts pounding. Violet took hersister’s hand and took a step backward, toward the door. “And now,” she said,“you’re going to try to whisk us away, aren’t you?”“Of course not,” Shirley said. “I’m going to offer you a cookie, like a good littlereceptionist.”“You’re not a receptionist!” Violet cried.“I certainly am,” Shirley said. “I’m a poor receptionist who lives all by herself,and who wants very much to raise children of her own. Three children, in fact: asmartypants little girl, a hypnotized little boy, and a buck-toothed baby.”“Well, you can’t raise us,” Violet said. “We’re already being raised by Sir.”“Oh, he’ll hand you over to me soon enough,” Shirley said, her eyes shiningbrightly.“Don’t be ab—” Violet said, but she stopped herself before she could say “surd.”She wanted to say “surd.” She wanted to say “Sir wouldn’t do a thing like that,” butinside she wasn’t so sure. Sir had already made the three Baudelaires sleep in onesmall bunk bed. He had already made them work in a lumbermill. And he had alreadyonly fed them gum for lunch. And as much as she wanted to believe that it wasabsurd to think that he would simply hand the Baudelaire orphans over to Shirley,Violet was not certain. She was only half sure, and so she stopped herself after half aword.“Ab?” said a voice behind her. “What in the world does the word ‘ab’ mean?”Violet and Sunny turned around and saw Dr. Orwell leading Klaus into the waitingroom. He was wearing another new pair of glasses and was looking confused.“Klaus!” Violet cried. “We were so worried ab—” She stopped herself before shecould say “out” when she saw her brother’s expression. It was the same expressionhe’d had the previous night, when he finally came back from his first appointmentwith Dr. Orwell. Behind his newest pair of glasses, Klaus had wide, wide eyes, and adazed and distant smile, as if his sisters were people he did not know so well.“There you go again, with ‘ab,’” Dr. Orwell said. “Whatever in the world does itmean?”“‘Ab’ isn’t a word, of course,” Shirley said. “Only a stupid person would say aword like ‘ab.’”“They are stupid, aren’t they?” Dr. Orwell agreed, as though they were talkingabout the weather instead of insulting young children. “They must have very lowself-esteem.”“I couldn’t agree more, Dr. Orwell,” Shirley said.“Call me Georgina,” the horrible optometrist replied, winking. “Now, girls, here isyour brother. He’s a little tired after his appointment, but he’ll be fine by tomorrowmorning. More than fine, in fact. Much more.” She turned and pointed at the doorwith her jeweled cane. “I believe you three know the way out.”“I don’t,” Klaus said faintly. “I can’t remember coming in here.”“That often happens after optometry appointments,” Dr. Orwell said smoothly.“Now run along, orphans.”Violet took her brother by the hand and began to lead him out of the waiting room.“We’re really free to go?” she asked, not believing it for a moment.“Of course,” Dr. Orwell said. “But I’m sure my receptionist and I will see yousoon.After all, Klaus seems to have gotten very clumsy lately. He’s always causingaccidents.”“Roopish!” Sunny shrieked. She probably meant “They’re not accidents! They’rethe results of hypnotism!” but the adults paid no attention. Dr. Orwell merely steppedout of the doorway and Shirley wiggled her pink fingers at them in a scrawny wave.“Toodle-oo, orphans!” Shirley said. Klaus looked at Shirley and waved back asViolet and Sunny led him by the hand out of the waiting room.“How could you wave to her?” Violet hissed to her brother, as they walked backdown the hallway.“She seems like a nice lady,” Klaus said, frowning. “I know I’ve met hersomewhere before.”“Ballywot!” Sunny shrieked, which undoubtedly meant “She’s Count Olaf indisguise!”“If you say so,” Klaus said vaguely.“Oh, Klaus,” Violet said miserably. “Sunny and I wasted time arguing with Shirleywhen we should have been rescuing you. You’ve been hypnotized again; I know it.Try to concentrate, Klaus. Try to remember what happened.”“I broke my glasses,” Klaus said slowly, “and then we left the lumbermill … . I’mvery tired, Veronica. Can I go to bed?”“Violet, ” Violet said. “My name is Violet, not Veronica.”“I’m sorry,” Klaus said. “I’m just so tired.” Violet opened the door of the building,and the three orphans stepped out onto the depressing street of Paltryville. Violet andSunny stopped and remembered when they had first reached the lumbermill aftergetting off the train, and had seen the eye-shaped building.Their instincts had told them that the building was trouble, but the children had notlistened to their instincts. They had listened to Mr. Poe.“We’d better take him to the dormitory,” Violet said to Sunny. “I don’t know whatelse we can do with Klaus in this state. Then we should tell Sir what has happened. Ihope he can help us.”“Guree,” Sunny agreed glumly. The sisters led their brother through the woodengates of the mill, and across the dirt-floored courtyard to the dormitory. It was almostsuppertime, and when the children walked inside they could see the other employeessitting on their bunks and talking quietly among themselves.“I see you’re back,” one of the workers said. “I’m surprised you can show yourfaces around here, after what you did to Phil.”“Oh, come now,” Phil said, and the orphans turned to see him lying down on hisbunk with his leg in a cast. “Klaus didn’t mean to do it, did you, Klaus?”“Mean to do what?” Klaus asked quizzically, a word which here means “becausehe didn’t know that he caused the accident that hurt Phil’s leg.”“Our brother is very tired,” Violet said quickly. “How are you feeling, Phil?”“Oh, perfectly fine,” Phil said. “My leg hurts, but nothing else does. I’m reallyquite fortunate. But enough about me. There’s a memo that was left for you. ForemanFlacutono said it was very important.”Phil handed Violet an envelope with the word “Baudelaires” typed on the front,just like the typed note of welcome the children had found on their first day at themill. Inside the envelope was a note, which read as follows:MemorandumTo: The Baudelaire OrphansFrom: S irSubject: Today’s AccidentI have been informed that you caused an accident this morning at the mill thatinjured an employee and disrupted the day’s work. Accidents are caused by bad workers,and bad workers are not tolerated at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill. If you continue tocause accidents I will be forced to fire you and send you to live elsewhere. I have located anice young lady who lives in town who would be happy to adopt three young children.Her name is Shirley and she works as a receptionist. If the three of you continue to be badworkers, I will place you under her care.Violet read the memo out loud to her siblings, and she didn’t know whose reactionwas more upsetting. As Sunny heard the bad news, she bit her lip in worry. Her toothwas so sharp that tiny drops of blood dribbled down her chin, and this was certainlyupsetting. But Klaus didn’t seem to hear the memo at all. He just stared into space,and this was worrisome as well. Violet put the memo back into the envelope, sat onthe bottom bunk, and wondered what in the world she could do.“Bad news?” Phil said sympathetically. “Remember, sometimes something mightseem like bad news, but it could turn out to be a blessing in disguise.”Violet tried to smile at Phil, but her smiling muscles just stayed put. She knew—orshe thought she knew, anyway, because she was actually wrong—that the only thingin disguise was Count Olaf. “We have to go see Sir,” Violet said finally. “We have toexplain to him what has happened.”“You’re not supposed to see Sir without an appointment,” Phil said.“This is an emergency,” Violet said. “Come on, Sunny. Come on …” She looked ather brother, who looked back at his older sister with wide, wide eyes. Violetremembered the accident he had caused, and all the previous Baudelaire guardianswho had been destroyed. She could not imagine that Klaus would be capable of thesort of heinous murders that Count Olaf had committed, but she could not be sure.Not when he was hypnotized.“Dinel,” Sunny said.“Klaus simply cannot go,” Violet decided. “Phil, will you please keep an eye onour brother while we go and visit Sir?” “Of course,” Phil said. “A very close eye,”she emphasized, leading Klaus to the Baudelaire bunk. “He’s . .. he’s not beenhimself lately, as I’m sure you’ve noticed. Please make sure he stays out of trouble.”“I will,” Phil promised. “Now, Klaus,” Violet said, “please get some sleep, and I hopeyou’ll feel better in the morning.”“Wub,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “I hope so, too.”Klaus lay down on the bunk, and his sisters looked at his bare feet, which werefilthy from walking around all day without any shoes on. “Good night, Violet,” Klaussaid. “Good night, Susan.”“Her name is Sunny,” Violet said.“I’m sorry,” Klaus said. “I’m just so exhausted. Do you really think I will feelbetter in the morning?”“If we’re lucky,” Violet said. “Now, go to sleep.”Klaus glanced at his older sister. “Yes, sir,” he said, quietly. He shut his eyes andimmediately fell asleep. The eldest Baudelaire tucked the blanket around her brotherand took a long, worried glance at him. Then she took Sunny’s hand and, with a smileto Phil, walked back out of the dormitory and across the courtyard to the offices.Inside, the two Baudelaires walked past the mirror without even a glance at theirreflections, and knocked on the door.“Come in!” The children recognized the booming voice of Sir, and nervouslyopened the door to the office. Sir was sitting at an enormous desk made of dark, darkwood, still smoking a cigar so his face could not be seen behind the cloud of smoke.The desk was covered with papers and folders, and there was a name-plate that read“The Boss” in letters made of chewed-up gum, just like the lumbermill sign outside.It was difficult to see the rest of the room, because there was only one tiny light in theroom, which sat on Sir’s desk. Next to Sir stood Charles, who gave the children a shysmile as they walked up to their guardian.“Do you have an appointment?” Sir asked.“No,” Violet said, “but it’s very important that I talk to you.”“I’ll decide what’s very important!” Sir barked. “You see this nameplate? It says‘The Boss,’ and that’s who I am! It’s very important when I say it’s very important,understand?”“Yes, Sir,” Violet said, “but I think you’ll agree with me when I explain what’sbeen going on.”“I know what’s been going on,” Sir said. “I’m the boss! Of course I know! Didn’tyou get my memo about the accident?”Violet took a deep breath and looked Sir in the eye, or at least the part of the cloudof smoke where she thought his eye probably was. “The accident,” she said finally,“happened because Klaus was hypnotized.”“What your brother does for a hobby is none of my concern,” Sir said, “and itdoesn’t excuse accidents.”“You don’t understand, Sir,” Violet said. “Klaus was hypnotized by Dr. Orwell,who is in cahoots with Count Olaf.”“Oh no!” Charles said. “You poor children! Sir, we have to put a stop to this!”“We are putting a stop to this!” Sir said. “You children will cause no moreaccidents, and you’ll be safely employed by this lumbermill. Otherwise, out you go!”“Sir!” Charles cried. “You wouldn’t throw the children out into the street!”“Of course not,” Sir said. “As I explained in my memo, I met a very nice younglady who works as a receptionist. When I mentioned there were three children in mycare, she said that if you were ever any trouble, she’d take you, because she’d alwayswanted children of her own.”“Palsh!” Sunny cried.“That’s Count Olaf!” Violet cried.“Do I look like an idiot to you?” Sir asked, pointing to his cloud. “I have acomplete description of Count Olaf from Mr. Poe, and this receptionist lookednothing like him. She was a very nice lady.”“Did you look for the tattoo?” Charles asked. “Count Olaf has a tattoo on hisankle, remember?”“Of course I didn’t look for the tattoo,” Sir said impatiently. “It’s not polite to lookat a woman’s legs.”“But she’s not a woman!” Violet burst out. “I mean, he’s not a woman! He’s CountOlaf!”“I saw her nameplate,” Sir said. “It didn’t say ‘Count Olaf.’ It said ‘Shirley.’”“Fiti!” Sunny shrieked, which you already know meant “That nameplate doesn’tprove anything, of course!” But Violet did not have time to translate, because Sir waspounding his hands on the desk.“Hypnosis! Count Olaf! Fiti! I’ve had enough of your excuses!” he yelled. “Yourjob is to work hard at the lumbermill, not cause accidents! I am busy enough withouthaving to deal with clumsy children!”Quickly, Violet thought of something else. “Well, can we call Mr. Poe?” she asked.“He knows all about Count Olaf, so perhaps he can be helpful.” Violet did not addthat Mr. Poe was not usually a very helpful person.“You want to add the cost of a long-distance phone call to the burden of caring foryou?” Sir asked. “I think not. Let me put it to you in the simplest way I can: If youscrew up again, I will give you away to Shirley.”“Now, Sir,” Charles said. “These are children. You shouldn’t talk to them this way.As you remember, I never thought it was a good idea for the Baudelaires to work inthe mill. They should be treated like members of the family.”“They are being treated like members of the family,” Sir said. “Many of mycousins live there in the dormitory. I refuse to argue with you, Charles! You’re mypartner! Your job is to iron my shirts and cook my omelettes, not boss me around!”“You’re right, of course,” Charles said softly. “I’m sorry.”“Now get out of here, all of you!” Sir barked. “I have lots of work to do!”Sunny opened her mouth to say something, but she knew it would be useless.Violet thought of something else she could point out, but she knew it would beworthless. And Charles started to raise his hand to make a point, but he knew itwould be bootless, a word which here means “useless and worthless.” So Charles andthe two Baudelaires left the dark office without another word, and stood for amoment together in the hallway.“Don’t worry,” Charles whispered. “I’ll help you.”“How?” Violet whispered back. “Will you call Mr. Poe and tell him Count Olaf ishere?”“Ulo?” Sunny asked, which meant “Will you have Dr. Orwell arrested?”“Will you hide us from Shirley?” Violet asked.“Henipul?” Sunny asked, which meant “Will you undo Klaus’s hypnotism?”“No,” Charles admitted. “I can’t do any of those things. Sir would get mad at me,and we can’t have that. But tomorrow, I will try and sneak you some raisins atlunchtime. O.K.?”It was not O.K., of course, not at all. Raisins are healthy, and they are inexpensive,and some people may even find them delicious. But they are rarely consideredhelpful. In fact, raisins were one of the least helpful things Charles could offer, if hereally wanted to help. But Violet didn’t answer him. She was looking down thehallway and thinking. Sunny didn’t answer him either, because she was alreadycrawling toward the door to the library. The Baudelaire sisters had no time to talkwith Charles. They had to figure out a plan, and they had to figure it out quickly. TheBaudelaire orphans were in a very difficult situation, and they needed every availablemoment to come up with something much, much more helpful than raisins.C H A P T E RElevenAs we have discussed previously, a book’s first sentence can often tell you whatsort of story the book contains. This book, you will remember, began with thesentence “The Baudelaire orphans looked out the grimy window of the train andgazed at the gloomy blackness of the Finite Forest , wondering if their lives wouldever get any better,” and the story has certainly been as wretched and hopeless as thefirst sentence promised it would be. I only bring this up now so you can understandthe feeling of dread that Violet and Sunny Baudelaire experienced as they opened abook in the library of the Lucky Smells Lumbermill. The two Baudelaire sistersalready had a feeling of dread, of course. Part of the dread came from how cruellyunfairly Sir had behaved. Another part of the dread came from how Charles, kind ashe was, seemed unable to help them. Yet another part of the dread came from the factthat Klaus had been hypnotized once more. And of course, the lion’s share of thedread—the phrase “lion’s share” here means “the biggest part” and has nothing to dowith lions or sharing—came from the fact that Count Olaf—or, as he insisted oncalling himself, Shirley—was back in the Baudelaires’ lives and causing so muchmisery.But there was an extra helping of dread that Violet and Sunny felt when theybegan Advanced Ocular Science, by Dr. Georgina Orwell. The first sentence was“This tome will endeavor to scrutinize, in quasi-inclusive breadth, the epistemologyof ophthalmologically contrived appraisals of ocular systems and the subsequent andrequisite exertions imperative for expugna-tion of injurious states,” and as Violet readit out loud to her sister, both children felt the dread that comes when you begin a veryboring and difficult book.“Oh dear,” Violet said, wondering what in the world “tome” meant. “This is a verydifficult book.”“Garj!” Sunny said, wondering what in the world “endeavor” meant.“If only we had a dictionary,” Violet said glumly. “Then we might be able to figureout what this sentence means.”“Yash!” Sunny pointed out, which meant something like “And if only Klausweren’t hypnotized, then he could tell us what this sentence means.”Violet and Sunny sighed, and thought of their poor hypnotized brother. Klausseemed so different from the brother they knew that it was almost as if Count Olafhad already succeeded with his dastardly scheme, and destroyed one of theBaudelaire orphans. Klaus usually looked interested in the world around him, andnow he had a blank expression on his face. His eyes were usually all squinty fromreading, and now they were wide as if he had been watching TV instead. He wasusually alert, and full of interesting things to say, and now he was forgetful, andalmost completely silent.“Who knows if Klaus could define these words for us?” Violet asked. “He said itfelt like part of his brain had been wiped clean. Maybe he doesn’t know all thosewords when he’s hypnotized. I don’t think I’ve heard him define anything since theaccident with Phil, when he explained the word ‘inordinate.’ You might as well getsome rest, Sunny. I’ll wake you up if I read anything useful.”Sunny crawled up on the table and lay down next to Advanced Ocular Science,which was almost as big as she was. Violet gazed at her sister for a moment, and thenturned her attention to the book. Violet liked to read, of course, but at heart she wasan inventor, not a researcher. She simply did not have Klaus’s amazing reading skills.Violet stared at Dr. Orwell’s first sentence again, and just saw a mess of difficultwords. She knew that if Klaus were in the library, and not hypnotized, he would see away to help them out of their situation. Violet began to imagine how her brotherwould go about reading Advanced Ocular Science, and tried to copy his methods.First she turned back the pages of the book, back before even the first page, to thetable of contents, which as I’m sure you know is a list of the titles and page numbersof each chapter in a book. Violet had paid scarcely any attention to it when she firstopened the book, but she realized that Klaus would probably examine the table ofcontents first, so he could see which chapters of the book might be most helpful.Quickly she scanned the table of contents:1. Introduction 12. Basic Ophthalmology 1053. Nearsightedness and Farsightedness 2794. Blindness 3115. Itchy Eyelashes 3986. Damaged Pupils 5017. Blinking Problems 6128. Winking Problems 6509. Surgical Practices 78310. Glasses, Monocles, and Contact Lenses 85711. Sunglasses 92612. Hypnosis and Mind Control 92713. Which Eye Color Is the Best One? 1,000Immediately, of course, Violet saw that chapter twelve would be the most helpful,and was glad she’d thought of looking at the table of contents instead of reading 927pages until she found something helpful. Grateful that she could skip that dauntingfirst paragraph—the word “daunting” here means “full of incredibly difficultwords”—she flipped through Advanced Ocular Science until she reached “Hypnosisand Mind Control.”The phrase “stylistic consistency” is used to describe books that are similar fromstart to finish. For instance, the book you are reading right now has stylisticconsistency, because it began in a miserable way and will continue that way until thelast page. I’m sorry to say that Violet realized, as she began chapter twelve, that Dr.Orwell’s book had stylistic consistency as well. The first sentence of “Hypnosis andMind Control” was “Hypnosis is an efficacious yet precarious methodology andshould not be assayed by neophytes,” and it was every bit as difficult and boring asthe first sentence of the whole book. Violet reread the sentence, and then reread itagain, and her heart began to sink. How in the world did Klaus do it? When the threechildren lived in the Baudelaire home, there was a huge dictionary in their parents’library, and Klaus would often use it to help him with difficult books. But how didKlaus read difficult books when there was no dictionary to be found? It was a puzzle,and Violet knew it was a puzzle she had to solve quickly.She turned her attention back to the book, and reread the sentence one more time,but this time she simply skipped the words she did not know. As often happens whenone reads in this way, Violet’s brain made a little humming noise as she encounteredeach word—or each part of a word—she did not know. So inside her head, theopening sentence of chapter twelve read as follows: ‘“Hypnosis is an hmmm yethmmm method hmmm and should not be hmmmed by hmmms,’” and although shecould not tell exactly what it meant, she could guess. “It could mean,” she guessed toherself, “that hypnosis is a difficult method and should not be learned by amateurs,”and the interesting thing is that she was not too far off. The night grew later and later,and Violet continued to read the chapter in this way, and she was surprised to learnthat she could guess her way through pages and pages of Dr. Orwell’s book. This isnot the best way to read, of course, because you can make horribly wrong guesses,but it will do in an emergency.For several hours, the Lucky Smells library was completely quiet except for theturning of pages, as Violet read the book searching for anything helpful. Every sooften she glanced at her sister, and for the first time in her life Violet wished thatSunny were older than she was. When you are trying to figure out a difficult problem—such as the problem of trying to get your brother unhypnotized so as not to beplaced into the hands of a greedy man disguised as a receptionist—it is often helpfulto discuss the problem with other people in order to come up with a quick and usefulsolution. Violet remembered that, when the Baudelaires were living with AuntJosephine, it had been extremely helpful to talk to Klaus about a note that turned outto have a secret hidden within it. But with Sunny it was different. The youngestBaudelaire was charming, and well toothed, and quite intelligent for a baby. But shewas still a baby, and as Violet hmmed through chapter twelve, she worried that shewould fail to find a solution with only a baby as a discussion partner. Nevertheless,when she found a sentence that appeared to be useful, she gave Sunny a wakingnudge and read the sentence out loud.“Listen to this, Sunny,” she said, when her sister opened her eyes. ‘“Once a subjecthas been hypnotized, a simple hmmm word will make him or her perform whateverhmmm acts any hmmm wants hmmmed.’”“Hmmm?” Sunny asked.“Those are the words I don’t know,” Violet explained. “It’s difficult to read thisway, but I can guess what Dr. Orwell means. I think she means that once you’vehypnotized someone, all you need to do is say a certain word and they will obey you.Remember what Klaus told us he learned from the Encyclopedia Hypnotical Therewas that Egyptian king who did chicken imitations, and the merchant who played theviolin, and that writer, and all the hypnotists did was say a certain word. But theywere all different words. I wonder which word applies to Klaus.”“Heece,” Sunny said, which probably meant something like “Beats me. I’m only ababy.”Violet gave her a gentle smile and tried to imagine what Klaus would have said ifhe had been there, unhypnotized, in the library with his sisters. “I’ll search for moreinformation,” she decided.“Brewol,” Sunny said, which meant “And I’ll go back to sleep.”Both Baudelaires were true to their word, and for a time the library was silentagain. Violet hmmmed through the book and grew more and more exhausted andworried. There were only a few hours left until the working day began, and she wasscared that her efforts would be as ineffectual—the word “ineffectual” here means“unable to get Klaus unhypnotized”—as if she had low self-esteem. But just as shewas about to fall asleep beside her sister, she found a passage in the book that seemedso useful she read it out loud immediately, waking Sunny up in the process.“‘In order to hmmm the hypnotic hold on the hmmm,’” Violet said, ‘“the samemethod hmmm is used: a hmmm word, uttered out loud, will hmmm the hmmmimmediately.’ I think Dr. Orwell is talking about getting people un-hypnotized, and ithas to do with another word being uttered out loud. If we figure that one, out, we canunhypnotize Klaus, and we won’t fall into Shirley’s clutches.”“Skel,” Sunny said, rubbing her eyes. She probably meant something like “But Iwonder what that word could be.”“I don’t know,” Violet said, “but we’d better figure it out before it’s too late.”“Hmmm,” Sunny said, making a humming noise because she was thinking, ratherthan because she was reading a word she did not know. “Hmmm,” Violet said, whichmeant she was thinking, too. But then there was another hmmm that made the twoBaudelaire sisters look at one another in worry. This was not the hmmm of a brainthat did not know what a word meant, or the hmmm of a person thinking. Thishmmm was much longer and louder, and it was a hmmm that made the Baudelairesisters stop their thinking and hurry out of the library, clutching Dr. Orwell’s book intheir trembling hands. It was the hmmm of the lumbermill’s saw. Somebody hadturned on the mill’s deadliest machine in the early, early hours of morning.Violet and Sunny hurried across the courtyard, which was quite dark in the firstfew rays of the sun. Hurriedly they opened the doors of the mill and looked inside.Foreman Flacutono was standing near the entrance, with his back to the two girls,pointing a finger and giving an order. The rusty sawing machine was whirring away,making that dreadful humming sound, and there was a log on the ground, all ready tobe pushed into the saw. The log seemed to be covered in layers and layers of string—the string that had been inside the string machine, before Klaus had smashed it.The two sisters took a better look, stepping farther into the mill, and saw that thestring was wrapped around something else, tying a large bundle to the log. And whenthey took an even better look, peeking from behind Foreman Flacutono, they saw thatthe bundle was Charles. He was tied to the log with so much string that he looked abit like a cocoon, except that a cocoon had never looked this frightened. Layers ofstring were covering his mouth, so he could not make a sound, but his eyes wereuncovered and he was staring in terror at the saw as it drew closer and closer.“Yes, you little twerp,” Foreman Flacutono was saying. “You’ve been fortunate sofar, avoiding my boss’s clutches, but no more. One more accident and you’ll be ours,and this will be the worst accident the lumbermill has ever seen. Just imagine Sir’sdispleasure when he learns that his partner has been sliced into human boards. Now,you lucky man, go and push the log into the saw!”Violet and Sunny took a few more steps forward, near enough that they couldreach out and touch Foreman Flacutono—not that they wanted to do such adisgusting thing, of course— and saw their brother. Klaus was standing at thecontrols of the sawing machine in his bare feet, staring at the foreman with his wide,blank eyes.“Yes, sir,” he said, and Charles’s eyes grew wide with panic.“You’ve been in on this all the time!” Violet shouted. “You’re in cahoots with Dr.Orwell, and Shirley!”“So what?” Foreman Flacutono said. “Deluny!” Sunny shrieked, which meantsomething along the lines of “You’re not just a bad foreman—you’re an evil person!”“I don’t know what you mean, little midget,” Foreman Flacutono said, “and I don’tcare. Klaus, you lucky boy, please continue.”“No, Klaus!” Violet shouted. “No!”“Kewtu!” Sunny shrieked. “Your words will do no good,” Foreman Flacutonosaid. “See?”Sunny saw, all right, as she watched her barefoot brother walking over to the logas if his sisters had not spoken. But Violet was not looking at her brother. She waslooking at Foreman Flacutono, and thinking of everything he had said. The terribleforeman was right, of course. The words of the two unhypnotized Baudelaires woulddo no good. But Violet knew that some words would help. The book she was holdinghad told her, in between hmmms, that there was a word that was used to commandKlaus, and a word that would unhypnotize him. The eldest Baudelaire realized thatForeman Flacutono must have used the command word just now, and she was tryingto remember everything that he had said. He’d called Klaus a twerp, but it seemedunlikely that “twerp” would be the word. He’d said “log” and he’d said “push,” butthose didn’t seem likely either. She realized with despair that the command wordcould almost be anything.“That’s right,” Foreman Flacutono said, as Klaus reached the log. “Now, in thename of Lucky Smells Lumbermill, push the log in the path of the saw.”Violet closed her eyes and racked her brain, a phrase which here means “tried tothink of other times the command word must have been used.” Foreman Flacutonomust have used it when Klaus caused the first accident, the one that broke Phil’s leg.“You, you lucky midget,” Violet remembered the foreman had said, “will beoperating the machine,” and Klaus had said “Yes, sir” in that faint, hypnotized voice,the same voice he had used before he had gone to sleep just the previous night.“Egu!” Sunny shrieked in fear, as the hmmm of the saw grew louder and rougher.Klaus had pushed the log up to the saw, and Charles’s eyes grew even wider as theblade began to slice the wood, getting closer and closer to where Charles was tied up.As she remembered Klaus’s “Yes, sir,” before he went to sleep, Violet realized shemust have used the command word herself, by accident. She racked her brain again,straining to remember the conversation. Klaus had called his baby sister Susan,instead of Sunny, and then asked if he would really feel better in the morning. Butwhat had Violet replied?“Keep pushing, you lucky midget,” Foreman Flacutono said, and Violet knew inan instant. Lucky.“Lucky!” the eldest Baudelaire shouted, not bothering to hide the word in asentence, as the foreman did. “Push the log away from the saw, Klaus!”“Yes, sir,” Klaus said quietly, and the Baudelaire sisters saw with relief that hepushed the log away from the whirling blade just as Charles’s toes were about to besliced. Foreman Flacutono whirled around and stared at Violet in beady rage. Sheknew that he knew that she knew.“Lucky!” he snarled. “Push the log back toward the saw, Klaus!”“Yes, sir,” Klaus muttered.“Lucky!” Violet cried. “Push the log away!”“Yes, sir,” Klaus murmured.“Lucky!” Foreman Flacutono barked. “Toward the saw!”“Lucky away!”“Lucky toward the saw!”“Lucky away!”“Lucky toward the saw!”“LUCKY!” bellowed a new voice from the doorway, and everyone—includingViolet, Klaus, Sunny, and Foreman Flacutono—turned around. Even Charles tried thebest he could to see Dr. Orwell, who had appeared in the doorway along with Shirley,who was lurking behind the hypnotist.“We just stopped by to make sure everything went well,” Dr. Orwell said,gesturing to the saw with her black cane. “And I’m certainly glad we did. Lucky!”she shouted to Klaus. “Do not listen to your sisters!”“What a good idea,” Foreman Flacutono said the doctor. “I never thought of that.”“That’s why you’re only a foreman,” Dr. Orwell replied snobbily. “Lucky, Klaus!Push the log in the path of the saw!”“Yes, sir,” Klaus said, and began to push the log again.“Please, Klaus!” Violet cried. “Don’t do this!”“Gice!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Don’t hurt Charles!”“Please, Dr. Orwell!” Violet cried. “Don’t force my brother to do this terriblething!”“It is a terrible thing, I know,” Dr. Orwell said. “But it’s a terrible thing that theBaudelaire fortune goes to you three brats, instead of to me and Shirley. We’re going tosplit the money fifty-fifty.”“After expenses, Georgina,” Shirley reminded her.“After expenses, of course,” Dr. Orwell said.The hmmm of the saw began making its louder, rougher sound as the blade startedto slice the log once more. Tears appeared in Charles’s eyes and began to run downthe string tying him to the log. Violet looked at her brother, and then at Dr. Orwell,and dropped the heavy book on the ground in frustration. What she needed now, andmost desperately, was the word that would unhypnotize her brother, but she had noidea what it could be. The command word had been used many times, and Violet hadbeen able to figure out which word had been used over and over. But Klaus had onlybeen unhypnotized once, after the accident that had broken Phil’s leg. She and hersister had known, in the moment he started defining a word for the employees, thatKlaus was back to normal, but who knew what word caused him, that afternoon, tosuddenly stop following Foreman Flacutono’s orders? Violet looked from Charles’stears to the ones appearing in Sunny’s eyes as the fatal accident grew nearer andnearer. In a moment, it seemed, they would watch Charles die a horrible death, andthen they would most certainly be placed in Shirley’s care. After so many narrowescapes from Count Olaf’s treachery, this seemed to be the moment of his—or in thiscase, her—terrible triumph. Out of all the situations, Violet thought to herself, thatshe and her siblings had been in, this was the most miserably irregular. It was themost miserably immoderate. It was the most miserably disorderly. It was the mostmiserably excessive. And as she thought all these words she thought of the one thathad unhypnotized Klaus, the one that just might save all their lives.“Inordinate!” she shouted, as loudly as she could to be heard over the terrible noiseof the saw. “Inordinate! Inordinate! Inordinate!”Klaus blinked, and then looked all around him as if somebody had just droppedhim in the middle of the mill. “Where am I?” he asked.“Oh, Klaus,” Violet said in relief. “You’re here with us!”“Drat!” Dr. Orwell said. “He’s unhypnotized! How in the world would a childknow a complicated word like ‘inordinate’?”“These brats know lots of words,” Shirley said, in her ridiculously fake high voice.“They’re book addicts. But we can still create an accident and win the fortune!”“Oh no you can’t!” Klaus cried, and stepped forward to push Charles out of theway.“Oh yes we can!” Foreman Flacutono said, and stuck his foot out again. Youwould think that such a trick would only work a maximum of two times, but in thiscase you would be wrong, and in this case Klaus fell to the floor again, his headclanging against the pile of debarkers and tiny green boxes.“Oh no you can’t!” Violet cried, and stepped forward to push Charles out of theway herself. “Oh yes we can!” Shirley said, in her silly high voice, and grabbedViolet’s arm. Foreman Flacutono quickly grabbed her other arm, and the eldestBaudelaire foundherself trapped.“Oh toonoy!” Sunny cried, and crawled toward Charles. She was not strongenough to push the log away from the saw, but she thought she could bite through hisstring and set him free.“Oh yes we can!” Dr. Orwell said, and reached down to grab the youngestBaudelaire. But Sunny was ready. Quckly she opened her mouth and bit down on thehypnotist’s hand as hard as she could.“Gack!” Dr. Orwell shouted, using an expression that is in no particular language.But then she smiled and used an expression that was in French: “En garde!” “Engarde!,” as you may know, is an expression people use when they wish to announcethe beginning of a sword-fight, and with a wicked smile, Dr. Orwell pressed the redjewel on top of her black cane, and a shiny blade emerged from the opposite end. Injust one second, her cane had become a sword, which she then pointed at theyoungest Baudelaire orphan. But Sunny, being only an infant, had no sword. She onlyhad her four sharp teeth, and, looking Dr. Orwell right in the eye, she opened hermouth and pointed all four at this despicable person.There is a loud clink! noise that a sword makes when it hits another sword—or, inthis case, a tooth—and whenever I hear it I am reminded of a swordfight I was forcedto have with a television repairman not long ago. Sunny, however, was only remindedof how much she did not want to be sliced to bits. Dr. Orwell swung her cane-swordat Sunny, and Sunny swung her teeth at Dr. Orwell, and soon the clink! noises werealmost as loud as the sawing machine which continued to saw up the log towardCharles. Clink! Up, up, the blade inched until it was only a hair’s breadth—theexpression “hair’s breadth” here means “a teeny-tiny measurement”—away fromCharles’s foot.“Klaus!” Violet cried, struggling in the grips of Shirley and Foreman Flacutono.“Do something!”“Your brother can’t do anything!” Shirley said, giggling in a most annoying way.“He’s just been unhypnotized—he’s too dazed to do anything. Foreman Flacutono,let’s both pull! We can make Violet’s armpits sore that way!”Shirley was right about Violet’s sore armpits, but she was wrong about Klaus. Hehad just been unhypnotized, and he was quite dazed, but he wasn’t too dazed to doanything. The trouble was, he simply couldn’t think of what to do. Klaus had beenthrown into the corner with the debarkers and the gum, and if he moved in thedirection of Charles, or Violet, he would walk right into Sunny and Dr. Orwell’ssword-fight, and as he heard another clink! from the sword hitting Sunny’s tooth heknew he would be seriously wounded if he tried to walk through the dueling pair. Butover the clink!s he heard an even louder and even rougher noise from the sawingmachine, and Klaus saw with horror that the blade was beginning to slice through thesoles of Charles’s shoes. Sir’s partner tried to wiggle his feet away from the blade,but they were tied too tightly, and tiny shoe-sole shavings began to fall to the floor ofthe mill. In a moment the blade would be finished with the sole of Charles’s shoe andbegin on the sole of Charles’s foot. Klaus needed to invent something to stop themachine, and he needed to invent it right away.Klaus stared at the circular blade of the saw, and his heart began to sink. How inthe world did Violet do it? Klaus had a mild interest in mechanical things, but at hearthe was a reader, not an inventor. He simply did not have Violet’s amazing inventingskills. He looked at the machine and just saw a deadly device, but he knew that ifViolet were in this corner of the mill, and not getting sore armpits from Shirley andForeman Flacutono, she would see a way to help them out of their situation. Klaustried to imagine how his sister would go about inventing something right there on thespot, and tried to copy her methods.Clink! Klaus looked around him for inventing materials, but saw only debarkersand tiny green boxes of gum. Immediately he ripped open a box of gum and shovedseveral pieces into his mouth, chewing ferociously. The expression “gum up theworks” does not actually have to do with gum, but merely refers to something thatstops the progress of something else. Klaus chewed and chewed the gum, hoping thatthe stickiness of the gum could gum up the works of the sawing machine, and stopthe deadly progress of its blade.Clink! Sunny’s third tooth hit the blade of Dr. Orwell’s sword, and Klaus quicklyspat the gum out of his mouth into his hand and threw it at the machine as hard as hecould. But it merely fell to the ground with a wet plop! Klaus realized that gum didn’tweigh enough to reach the machine. Like a feather, or a piece of paper, the wad ofgum simply couldn’t be thrown very far.Hukkita —hukkita—hukkita! The machine began making the loudest and roughestsound Klaus had ever heard. Charles closed his eyes, and Klaus knew that the blademust have hit the bottom of his foot. He grabbed a bigger handful of gum and shovedit into his mouth, but he didn’t know if he could chew enough gum to make a heavyenough invention. Unable to watch the saw any longer, he looked down, and whenhis eye fell upon one of the debark-ers he knew he could invent something after all.When Klaus looked at the lumbermill equipment, he remembered a time when hewas even more bored than he had been when working at Lucky Smells. Thisespecially boring time had happened a very long time ago, when the Baudelaireparents were still alive. Klaus had read a book on different kinds offish, and asked hisparents if they would take him fishing. His mother warned him that fishing was oneof the most boring activities in the world, but found two fishing poles in the basementand agreed to take him to a nearby lake. Klaus had been hoping that he would get tosee the different types offish he had read about, but instead he and his mother sat in arowboat in the middle of a lake and did nothing for an entire afternoon. He and hismother had to keep quiet, so as not to scare the fish away, but there were no fish, noconversation, and absolutely no fun. You might think that Klaus would not want toremember such a boring time, particularly in the middle of a crisis, but one detail ofthis very boring afternoon turned out to be extremely helpful.As Sunny struggled with Dr. Orwell, Violet struggled with Shirley and ForemanFlacutono, and poor Charles struggled with the saw, Klaus remembered the part ofthe fishing process known as casting. Casting is the process of using one’s fishingpole to throw one’s fishing line out into the middle of the lake in order to try to catcha fish. In the case of Klaus and his mother, the casting hadn’t worked, but Klaus didnot want to catch fish. He wanted to save Charles’s life.A Series of Unfortunate Events 4 - TheMiserable MillQuickly, the middle Baudelaire grabbed the debarker and spat his gum onto oneend of it. He was planning to use the sticky gum as a sort of fishing line and thedebarker as a sort of fishing pole, in order to throw gum all the way to the saw.Klaus’s invention looked more like a wad of gum at the end of a strip of metal than areal fishing pole, but Klaus didn’t care how it looked. He only cared whether it couldstop the saw. He took a deep breath, and cast the debarker the way his mother taughthim to cast his fishing pole.Plop! To Klaus’s delight, the gum stretched over Dr. Orwell and Sunny, who werestill fighting, just as fishing line will stretch out across the surface of a lake. But toKlaus’s horror, the gum did not land on the saw. It landed on the string that was tyingthe wriggling Charles to the log. Klaus watched Charles wriggle and was once againreminded of a fish, and it occurred to him that perhaps his invention had worked afterall. Gathering up all of his strength—and, after working at a lumbermill for a while,he actually had quite a bit of strength for a young boy—he grabbed his invention, andpulled. Klaus pulled on his debarker, and the debarker pulled on the gum, and thegum pulled on the log, and to the relief of all three Baudelaire orphans the log movedto one side. It did not move very far, and it did not move very quickly, and it certainlydid not move very gracefully, but it moved enough. The horrible noise stopped, andthe blade of the saw kept slicing, but the log was far enough out of the way that themachine was simply slicing thin air. Charles looked at Klaus, and his eyes filled withtears, and when Sunny turned to look she saw that Klaus was crying, too.But when Sunny turned to look, Dr. Orwell saw her chance. With a swing of oneof her big ugly boots, she kicked Sunny to the ground and held her in place with onefoot. Then, standing over the infant, she raised her sword high in the air and began tolaugh a loud, horrible snarl of a laugh. “I do believe,” she said, cackling, “that therewill be an accident at Lucky Smells Lumbermill after all!”And Dr. Orwell was right. There was an accident at the lumbermill, after all, afatal accident, which is a phrase used to describe one that kills somebody. For just asDr. Orwell was about to bring her sword down on little Sunny’s throat, the door ofthe lumbermill opened and Sir walked into the room. “What in the world is goingon?” he barked, and Dr. Orwell turned to him, absolutely surprised. When people areabsolutely surprised, they sometimes take a step backward, and taking a stepbackward can sometimes lead to an accident. Such was the case at this moment, forwhen Dr. Orwell stepped backward, she stepped into the path of the whirring saw,and there was a very ghastly accident indeed.to Paltryville, in order to handle this matter personally.”“We appreciate it very much,” Charles said.“Dreadful, dreadful, dreadful,” Sir said again.The Baudelaire orphans sat together on the floor of Sir’s office and looked up atthe adults discussing the situation, wondering how in the world they could talk aboutit so calmly. The word “dreadful,” even when used three times in a row, did not seemlike a dreadful enough word to describe everything that had happened. Violet wasstill trembling from how Klaus had looked while hypnotized. Klaus was stillshivering from how Charles had almost been sliced up. Sunny was still shaking fromhow she had almost been killed in the swordfight with Dr. Orwell. And, of course, allthree orphans were still shuddering from how Dr. Orwell had met her demise, aphrase which here means “stepped into the path of the sawing machine.” Thechildren felt as if they could barely speak at all, let alone participate in aconversation.“It’s unbelievable,” Sir said, “that Dr. Orwell was really a hypnotist, and that shehypnotized Klaus in order to get ahold of the Baudelaire fortune. Luckily, Violetfigured out how to unhypnotize her brother, and he didn’t cause any more accidents.”“It’s unbelievable,” Charles said, “that Foreman Flacutono grabbed me in themiddle of the night, and tied me to that log, in order to get ahold of the Baudelairefortune. Luckily, Klaus invented something that shoved the log out of the path of thesaw just in time, and I only have a small cut on my foot.”“It’s unbelievable,” Mr. Poe said, after a short cough, “that Shirley was going toadopt the children, in order to get ahold of the Baudelaire fortune. Luckily, werealized her plan, and now she has to go back to being a receptionist.”At this Violet could keep quiet no longer. “Shirley is not a receptionist!” she cried.“She’s not even Shirley! She’s Count Olaf!”“Now that” Sir said, “is the part of the story that is so unbelievable that I don’tbelieve it. I met this young woman, and she isn’t at all like Count Olaf! She has oneeyebrow instead of two, that’s true, but plenty of wonderful people have thatcharacteristic!”“You must forgive the children,” Mr. Poe said. “They tend to see Count Olafeverywhere.”“That’s because he is everywhere,” Klaus said bitterly.“Well,” Sir said, “he hasn’t been here in Paltryville. We’ve been looking out forhim, remember?”“Weleef!” Sunny cried. She meant something along the lines of “But he was indisguise, as usual!”“Can we go see this Shirley person?” Charles asked timidly. “The children doseem fairly sure of themselves. Perhaps if Mr. Poe could see this receptionist, wecould clear this matter up.”“I put Shirley and Foreman Flacutono in the library, and asked Phil to keep an eyeon them,” Sir said. “Charles’s library turns out to be useful at last—as a substitutejail, until we clear up this matter!”“The library was plenty useful, Sir,” Violet said. “If I hadn’t read up on hypnosis,your partner, Charles, would be dead.”“You certainly are a clever child,” Charles said.“Yes,” Sir agreed. “You’ll do wonderfully at boarding school.”“Boarding school?” Mr. Poe asked.“Of course,” Sir replied, nodding his cloud of smoke. “You don’t think I wouldkeep them now, do you, after all the trouble they’ve caused my lumbermill?”“But that wasn’t our fault!” Klaus cried.“That doesn’t matter,” Sir said. “We made a deal. The deal was that I would try tokeep Count Olaf away, and you wouldn’t cause any more accidents. You didn’t keepyour end of the deal.”“Hech!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “But you didn’t keep your end of the deal,either!” Sir paid no attention.“Well, let’s go see this woman,” Mr. Poe said, “and we can settle once and for allwhether or not Count Olaf was here.”The three grown-ups nodded, and the three children followed them down thehallway to the library door, where Phil was sitting on a chair with a book in hishands.“Hello, Phil,” Violet said. “How is your leg?”“Oh, it’s getting better,” he said, pointing to his cast. “I’ve been guarding the door,Sir, and neither Shirley nor Foreman Flacutono have escaped. Oh, and by the way,I’ve been reading this book, The Paltryville Constitution. I don’t understand all of thewords, but it sounds like it’s illegal to pay people only in coupons.”“We’ll talk about that later,” Sir said quickly. “We need to see Shirley aboutsomething.”Sir reached forward and opened the door to reveal Shirley and Foreman Flacutonositting quietly at two tables near the window. Shirley had Dr. Orwell’s book in onehand and waved at the children with the other.“Hello there, children!” she called, in her phony high voice. “I was so worriedabout you!”“So was I!” Foreman Flacutono said. “Thank goodness I’m unhypnotized now, soI’m not treating you badly any longer!”“So you were hypnotized, too?” Sir asked.“Of course we were!” Shirley cried. She leaned down and patted all three childrenon the head. “We never would have acted so dreadfully otherwise, not to three suchwonderful and delicate children!” Behind her false eyelashes, Shirley’s shiny eyesgazed at the Baudelaires as if she were going to eat them as soon as she got theopportunity.“You see?” Sir said to Mr. Poe. “No wonder it was unbelievable that ForemanFlacutono and Shirley acted so horribly. Of course she’s not Count Olaf!”“Count who?” Foreman Flacutono asked. “I’ve never heard of the man.”“Me neither,” Shirley said, “but I’m only a receptionist.”“Perhaps you’re not only a receptionist,” Sir said. “Perhaps you’re also a mother.What do you say, Mr. Poe? Shirley really wants to raise these children, and they’remuch too much trouble for me.”“No!” Klaus cried. “She’s Count Olaf, not Shirley!”Mr. Poe coughed into his white handkerchief at great length, and the threeBaudelaires waited tensely for him to finish coughing and say something. Finally, heremoved his handkerchief from his face and said to Shirley, “I’m sorry to say this,ma’am, but the children are convinced that you are a man named Count Olaf,disguised as a receptionist.”“If you’d like,” Shirley said, “I can take you to Dr. Orwell’s office—the late Dr.Orwell’s office—and show you my nameplate. It clearly reads ‘Shirley.’”“I’m afraid that would not be sufficient,” Mr. Poe said. “Would you do us all thecourtesy of showing us your left ankle?”“Why, it’s not polite to look at a lady’s legs,” Shirley said. “Surely you know that.”“If your left ankle does not have a tattoo of an eye on it,” Mr. Poe said, “then youare most certainly not Count Olaf.”Shirley’s eyes shone very, very bright, and she gave everyone in the room a big,toothy smile. “And what if it does?” she asked, and hitched up her skirt slightly.“What if it does have a tattoo of an eye on it?”Everyone’s eyes turned to Shirley’s ankle, and one eye looked back at them. Itresembled the eye-shaped building of Dr. Orwell, which the Baudelaire orphans felthad been watching them since they arrived in Paltryville. It resembled the eye on thecover of Dr. Orwell’s book, which the Baudelaire orphans felt had been staring atthem since they began working at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill. And, of course, itlooked exactly like Count Olaf’s tattoo, which is what it was, and which theBaudelaire orphans felt had been gazing at them since their parents had died.“In that case,” Mr. Poe said, after a pause, “you are not Shirley. You are CountOlaf, and you are under arrest. I order you to take off that ridiculous disguise!”“Should I take off my ridiculous disguise, as well?” Foreman Flacutono asked, andtore his white wig off with one smooth motion. It did not surprise the children that hewas bald—they had known his absurd hair was a wig from the moment they laid eyeson him—but there was something about the shape of his bald head that suddenlyseemed familiar. Glaring at the orphans with his beady eyes, he grabbed his surgicalmask from his face and removed that, too. A long nose uncurled itself from where ithad been pressed down to his face, and the siblings saw in an instant that it was oneof Count Olaf’s assistants.“It’s the bald man!” Violet cried.“With the long nose!” Klaus cried.“Plemo!” Sunny cried, which meant “Who works for Count Olaf!”“I guess we’re lucky enough to capture two criminals today,” Mr. Poe said sternly.“Well, three, if you include Dr. Orwell,” Count Olaf—and what a relief it is to callhim that, instead of Shirley—said.“Enough nonsense,” Mr. Poe said. “You, Count Olaf, are under arrest for variousmurders and attempted murders, various frauds and attempted frauds, and variousdespicable acts and attempted despicable acts, and you, my bald, long-nosed friend,are under arrest for helping him.”Count Olaf shrugged, sending his wig toppling to the floor, and smiled at theBaudelaires in a way they were sorry to recognize. It was a certain smile that CountOlaf had just when it looked like he was trapped. It was a smile that looked as ifCount Olaf were telling a joke, and it was a smile accompanied by his eyes shiningbrightly and his evil brain working furiously. “This book was certainly helpful to you,orphans,” Count Olaf said, holding Dr. Orwell’s Advanced Ocular Science high in theair, “and now it will help me.” With all his rotten might, Count Olaf turned and threwthe heavy book right through one of the library windows. With a crash of tinklingglass, the window shattered and left a good-sized hole. The hole was just big enoughfor a person to jump through, which is exactly what the bald man did, wrinkling hislong nose at the children as if they smelled bad. Count Olaf laughed a horrible, roughlaugh, and followed his comrade out the window and away from Paltryville. “I’ll beback for you, orphans!” he called. “I’ll be back for your lives!”“Egad!” Mr. Poe said, using an expression which here means “Oh no! He’sescaping!”Sir stepped quickly to the window, and peered out after Count Olaf and the baldman, who were running as fast as their skinny legs could carry them. “Don’t comeback here!” Sir yelled out after them. “The orphans won’t be here, so don’t return!”“What do you mean, the orphans won’t be here?” Mr. Poe asked sternly. “Youmade a deal, and you didn’t keep your end of it! Count Olaf was here after all!”“That doesn’t matter,” Sir said, waving one of his hands dismissively. “Whereverthese Baudelaires go, misfortune follows, and I will have no more of it!”“But Sir,” Charles said, “they’re such good children!”“I won’t discuss it anymore,” Sir said. “My nameplate says ‘The Boss,’ and that’swho I am. The boss has the last word, and the last word is this: The children are nolonger welcome at Lucky Smells!”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked at one another. “The children are no longerwelcome at Lucky Smells,” of course, is not the last word, because it is many words,and they knew, of course, that when Sir said “the last word” he didn’t mean oneword, but the final opinion on the situation. But their experience at the lumbermillhad been so very dreadful that they didn’t care much that they were leaving Paltryville. Even a boarding school sounded like it would be better than their days withForeman Flacutono, Dr. Orwell, and the evil Shirley. I’m sorry to tell you that theorphans were wrong about boarding school being better, but at the moment theyknew nothing of the troubles ahead of them, only of the troubles behind them, and thetroubles that had escaped out the window.“Can we please discuss this matter later,” Violet asked, “and call the police now?Maybe Count Olaf can be caught.”“Excellent idea, Violet,” Mr. Poe said, although of course he should have thoughtof this idea earlier himself. “Sir, please take me to your telephone so we can call theauthorities.”“Oh, all right,” Sir said grumpily. “But remember, this is my last word on thematter. Charles, make me a milkshake. I’m very thirsty.”“Yes, Sir,” Charles said, and limped after his partner and Mr. Poe, who werealready out of the library. Halfway out the door, however, he stopped and smiledapologetically at the Baudelaires.“I’m sorry,” he said to them. “I’m sorry that I won’t be seeing you anymore. But Iguess Sir knows best.”“We’re sorry too, Charles,” Klaus said. “And I’m sorry that I caused you so muchtrouble.”“It wasn’t your fault,” Charles said kindly, as Phil limped up behind him.“What happened?” Phil asked. “I heard breaking glass.”“Count Olaf got away,” Violet said, and her heart sank as she realized it was reallytrue. “Shirley was really Count Olaf in disguise, and he got away, just like he alwaysdoes.”“Well, if you look on the bright side, you’re really quite lucky,” Phil said, and theorphans gave their optimistic friend a curious look and then looked curiously at oneanother. Once they had been happy children, so content and pleased with their lifethat they hadn’t even known how happy they were. Then came the terrible fire, and itseemed since then that their lives had scarcely had one bright moment, let alone anentire bright side. From home to home they traveled, encountering misery andwretchedness wherever they went, and now the man who had caused suchwretchedness had escaped once more. They certainly didn’t feel very lucky.“What do you mean?” Klaus asked quietly.“Well, let me think,” Phil said, and thought for a moment. In the background, theorphans could hear the dim sounds of Mr. Poe describing Count Olaf to somebody onthe telephone. “You’re alive,” Phil said finally. “That’s lucky. And I’m sure we canthink of something else.”The three Baudelaire children looked at one another and then at Charles and Phil,the only people in Paltryville who had been kind to them. Although they would notmiss the dormitory, or the terrible casseroles, or the back-breaking labor of the mill,the orphans would miss these two kind people. And as the siblings thought aboutwhom they would miss, they thought how much they would have missed one another,if something even worse had happened to them. What if Sunny had lost theswordfight? What if Klaus had remained hypnotized forever? What if Violet hadstepped into the path of the saw, instead of Dr. Orwell? The Baudelaires looked at thesunlight, pouring through the shattered window where Count Olaf had escaped, andshuddered to think of what could have happened. Being alive had never seemedlucky before, but as the children considered their terrible time in Sir’s care, they wereamazed at how many lucky things had actually happened to them.“It was lucky,” Violet admitted quietly, “that Klaus invented something so quickly,even though he’s not an inventor.”“It was lucky,” Klaus admitted quietly, “that Violet figured out how to end myhypnosis, even though she’s not a researcher.”“Croif,” Sunny admitted quietly, which meant something like “It was lucky that Icould defend us from Dr. Orwell’s sword, if I do say so myself.”The children sighed, and gave each other small, hopeful smiles. Count Olaf was onthe loose, and would try again to snatch their fortune, but he had not succeeded thistime. They were alive, and as they stood together at the broken window, it seemedthat the last word on their situation might be “lucky,” the word that had caused somuch trouble to begin with. The Baudelaire orphans were alive, and it seemed thatmaybe they had an inordinate amount of luck after all.LEMONY SNICKET grew up near the sea and currently lives beneath it. To his horrorand dismay he has no wife or children, only enemies, associates, and the occasional loyalmanservant. His trial has been delayed, so he is free to continue researching and writingthe tragic tales of the Baudelaire orphans for HarperCollins.To My Kind Editor,Please excuse the torn edges of this note. I am writing to you from inside the shackthe Baudelaire orphans were forced to live in while at Prufrock Preparatory School ,and I am afraid that some of the crabs tried to snatch my stationery away from me.On Sunday night, please purchase a ticket for seat 10-J at the Erratic OperaCompany’s performance of the opera Faute de Mieux. During Act Five, use a sharpknife to rip open the cushion of your seat. There you should find my description ofthe children’s miserable half-semester at boarding school, entitled THE AUSTEREACADEMY, as well as a cafeteria tray, some of the Baudelaires’ handmade staples,and the (worthless) jewel from Coach Genghis’s turban. There is also the negative fora photograph of the two Quagmire Triplets, which Mr. Helquist can have developedto help with his illustrations.Remember, you are my last hope that the tales of the Baudelaire orphans canfinally be told to the general public.With all due respect,Lemony SnicketA Series of Unfortunate Events 5 - TheAustere AcademyASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the FifthThe Austere AcademyLemony SnicketFor BeatriceYou will always be in my heart,in my mind,and in your grave.C H A P T E ROneIf you were going to give a gold medal to the least delightful person on Earth, youwould have to give that medal to a person named Carmelita Spats, and if you didn’t give itto her, Carmelita Spats was the sort of person who would snatch it from your handsanyway. Carmelita Spats was rude, she was violent, and she was filthy, and it is really ashame that I must describe her to you, because there are enough ghastly and distressingthings in this story without even mentioning such an unpleasant person.It is the Baudelaire orphans, thank goodness, who are the heroes of this story, not theand since then Olaf had followed them everywhere, usually accompanied by one or moreof his sinister and ugly associates. No matter who was caring for the Baudelaires, CountOlaf was always right behind them, performing such dastardly deeds that I can scarcelylist them all: kidnapping, murder, nasty phone calls, disguises, poison, hypnosis, andatrocious cooking are just some of the adversities the Baudelaire orphans survived at hishands. Even worse, Count Olaf had a bad habit of avoiding capture, so he was always sureto turn up again. It is truly awful that this keeps happening, but that is how the story goes.I only tell you that the story goes this way because you are about to become acquaintedwith rude, violent, filthy Carmelita Spats, and if you can’t stand reading about her, youhad best put this book down and read something else, because it only gets worse fromhere. Before too long, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire will have so much adversitythat being dreadful Carmelita Spats, and if you wanted to give a gold medal to Violet,Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire, it would be for survival in the face of adversity. Adversity isa word which here means “trouble,” and there are very few people in this world who havehad the sort of troubling adversity that follows these three children wherever they go.Their trouble began one day when they were relaxing at the beach and received thedistressing news that their parents had been killed in a terrible fire, and so were sent to livewith a distant relative named Count Olaf.If you were going to give a gold medal to Count Olaf, you would have to lock it upsome-place before the awarding ceremony, because Count Olaf was such a greedy and evilman that he would try to steal it beforehand. The Baudelaire orphans did not have a goldmedal, but they did have an enormous fortune that their Parents had left them, and it wasthat fortune Count Olaf tried to snatch. The three siblings survived living with Count Olaf,but just barely, shoved aside by Carmelita Spats will look like a trip to the ice cream store.“Get out of my way, you cakesniffers!” said a rude, violent, and filthy little girl,shoving the Baudelaire orphans aside as she dashed by. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were toostartled to answer. They were standing on a sidewalk made of bricks, which must havebeen very old because there was a great deal of dark moss oozing out from in betweenthem. Surrounding the sidewalk was a vast brown lawn that looked like it had never beenwatered, and on the lawn were hundreds of children running in various directions.Occasionally someone would slip and fall to the ground, only to get back up and keeprunning. It looked exhausting and pointless, two things that should be avoided at all costs,but the Baudelaire orphans barely glanced at the other children, keeping their eyes on themossy bricks below them.Shyness is a curious thing, because, like quicksand, it can strike people at any time, andalso, like quicksand, it usually makes its victims look down. This was to be theBaudelaires’ first day at Prufrock Preparatory School , and all three siblings found thatthey would rather look at the oozing moss than at anything else.“Have you dropped something?” Mr. Poe asked, coughing into a white handkerchief.One place the Baudelaires certainly didn’t want to look was at Mr. Poe, who was walkingclosely behind them. Mr. Poe was a banker who had been placed in charge of theBaudelaires’ affairs following the terrible fire, and this had turned out to be a lousy idea.Mr. Poe meant well, but a jar of mustard probably also means well and would do a betterjob of keeping the Baudelaires out of danger. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny had long agolearned that the only thing they could count on from Mr. Poe was that he was alwayscoughing.“No,” Violet replied, “we haven’t dropped anything.” Violet was the oldest Baudelaire,and usually she was not shy at all. Violet liked to invent things, and one could often findher thinking hard about her latest invention, with her hair tied up in a ribbon to keep it outof her eyes. When her inventions were done, she liked to show them to people she knew,who were usually very impressed with her skill. Right now, as she looked down at themossy bricks, she thought of a machine she could build that could keep moss fromgrowing on the sidewalk, but she felt too nervous to talk about it. What if none of theteachers, children, or administrative staff were interested in her inventions?As if he were reading her thoughts, Klaus put a hand on Violet’s shoulder, and shesmiled at him. Klaus had known for all twelve of his years that his older sister found ahand on her shoulder comforting-as long as the hand was attached to an arm, of course.Normally Klaus would have said something comforting as well, but he was feeling as shyas his sister. Most of the time, Klaus could be found doing what he liked to do best, whichwas reading. Some mornings one could find him in bed with his glasses on because he hadbeen reading so late that he was too tired to take them off. Klaus looked down at thesidewalk and remembered a book he had read called Moss Mysteries, but he felt too shy tobring it up. What if Prufrock Preparatory School had nothing good to read?Sunny, the youngest Baudelaire, looked up at her siblings, and Violet smiled and pickedher up. This was easy to do because Sunny was a baby and only a little bit larger than aloaf of bread. Sunny was also too nervous to say anything, although it was often difficultto understand what she said when she did speak up. For instance, if Sunny had not beenfeeling so shy, she might have opened her mouth, revealing her four sharp teeth, and said“Marimo!” which may have meant “I hope there are plenty of things to bite at school,because biting things is one of my favorite things to do!”“I know why you’re all so quiet,” Mr. Poe said. “It’s because you’re excited, and I don’tblame you. I always wanted to go to boarding school when I was younger, but I never hadthe chance. I’m a little jealous of you, if you want to know the truth.”The Baudelaires looked at one another. The fact that Prufrock Preparatory School was aboarding school was the part that made them feel the most nervous. If no one wasinterested in inventions, or there was nothing to read, or biting wasn’t allowed, they werestuck there, not only all day but all night as well. The siblings wished that if Mr. Poe werereally jealous of them he would attend Prufrock Preparatory School himself, and theycould work at the bank.“You’re very lucky to be here,” Mr. Poe continued. “I had to call more than fourschools before I found one that could take all three of you at such short notice. PrufrockPrep-that’s what they call it, as a sort of nickname-is a very fine academy. The teachers allhave advanced degrees. The dormitory rooms are all finely furnished. And most importantof all, there is an advanced computer system which will keep Count Olaf away from you.Vice Principal Nero told me that Count Olaf’s complete description-everything from hisone long eyebrow to the tattoo of an eye on his left ankle-has been programmed into thecomputer, so you three should be safe here for the next several years.”“But how can a computer keep Count Olaf away?” Violet asked in a puzzled voice, stilllooking down at the ground.“It’s an advanced computer,” Mr. Poe said, as if the word “advanced” were a properexplanation instead of a word meaning “having attained advancement.”“Don’t worry your little heads about Count Olaf. Vice Principal Nero has promised methat he will keep a close eye on you. After all, a school as advanced as Prufrock Prepwouldn’t allow people to simply run around loose.”“Move, cakesniffers!” the rude, violent, and filthy little girl said as she dashed by themagain.“What does ‘cakesniffers’ mean?” Violet murmured to Klaus, who had an enormousvocabulary from all his reading.“I don’t know,” Klaus admitted, “but it doesn’t sound very nice.”“What a charming word that is,” Mr. Poe said. “Cakesniffers. I don’t know what itmeans, but it reminds me of pastry. Oh well, here we are.” They had come to the end ofthe mossy brick sidewalk and stood in front of the school. The Baudelaires looked up attheir new home and gasped in surprise. Had they not been staring at the sidewalk thewhole way across the lawn, they would have seen what the academy looked like, butperhaps it was best to delay looking at it for as long as possible. A person who designsbuildings is called an architect, but in the case of Prufrock Prep a better term might be“depressed architect.” The school was made up of several buildings, all made of smoothgray stone, and the buildings were grouped together in a sort of sloppy line. To get to thebuildings, the Baudelaires had to walk beneath an immense stone arch casting a curvedshadow on the lawn, like a rainbow in which all of the colors were gray or black. On thearch were the words “PRUFROCK PREPARATORY SCHOOL ” in enormous blackletters, and then, in smaller letters, the motto of the school, “Memento Mori.” But it wasnot the buildings or the arch that made the children gasp. It was how the buildings wereshaped-rectangular, but with a rounded top. A rectangle with a rounded top is a strangeshape, and the orphans could only think of one thing with that shape. To the Baudelaireseach building looked exactly like a gravestone.“Rather odd architecture,” Mr. Poe commented. “Each building looks like a thumb. Inmy case, you are to report to Vice Principal Nero’s office immediately. It’s on the ninthfloor of the main building.”“Aren’t you coming with us, Mr. Poe?” Violet asked. Violet was fourteen, and she knewthat fourteen was old enough to go to somebody’s office by herself, but she felt nervousabout walking into such a sinister-looking building without an adult nearby.Mr. Poe coughed into his handkerchief and looked at his wristwatch at the same time.“I’m afraid not,” he said when his coughing passed. “The banking day has already begun.But I’ve talked over everything with Vice Principal Nero, and if there’s any problem,remember you can always contact me or any of my associates at Mulctuary MoneyManagement. Now, off you go. Have a wonderful time at Prufrock Prep.”“I’m sure we will,” said Violet, sounding much braver than she felt. “Thank you foreverything, Mr. Poe.”“Yes, thank you,” Klaus said, shaking the banker’s hand.“Terfunt,” Sunny said, which was her way of saying “Thank you.”“You’re welcome, all of you,” Mr. Poe said. “So long.” He nodded at all threeBaudelaires, and Violet and Sunny watched him walk back down the mossy sidewalk,carefully avoiding the running children. But Klaus didn’t watch him. Klaus was looking atthe enormous arch over the academy.“Maybe I don’t know what ‘cakesniffer’ means,” Klaus said, “but I think I can translateour new school’s motto.”“It doesn’t even look like it’s in English,” Violet said, peering up at it.“Racho,” Sunny agreed.“It’s not,” Klaus said. “It’s in Latin. Many mottoes are in Latin, for some reason. I don’tknow very much Latin, but I do remember reading this phrase in a book about the MiddleAges. If it means what I think it means, it’s certainly a strange motto.”“What do you think it means?” Violet asked.“If I’m not mistaken,” said Klaus, who was rarely mistaken, “‘Memento Mori’ means‘Remember you will die.’”“Remember you will die,” Violet repeated quietly, and the three siblings stepped closerto one another, as if they were very cold. Everybody will die, of course, sooner or later.Circus performers will die, and clarinet experts will die, and you and I will die, and theremight be a person who lives on your block, right now, who is not looking both waysbefore he crosses the street and who will die in just a few seconds, all because of a bus.Everybody will die, but very few people want to be reminded of that fact. The childrencertainly did not want to remember that they would die, particularly as they walkedbeneath the arch over Prufrock Prep. The Baudelaire orphans did not need to be remindedof this as they began their first day in the giant graveyard that was now their home.C H A P T E RTwoAs the Baudelaire orphans stood outside Vice Principal Nero’s door, they werereminded of something their father said to them just a few months before he died. Oneevening, the Baudelaire parents had gone out to hear an orchestra play, and the threechildren had stayed by themselves in the family mansion. The Baudelaires had somethingof a routine on nights like this. First, Violet and Klaus would play a few games of checkerswhile Sunny ripped up some old newspapers, and then the three children would read in thelibrary until they fell asleep on comfortable sofas. When their parents came home theywould wake up the sleeping children, talk to them a little about the evening, and sendthem off to bed. But on this particular night, the Baudelaire parents came home early andthe children were still up reading-or, in Sunny’s case, looking at the pictures. The siblings’father stood in the doorway of the library and said something they never forgot.“Children,” he said, “there is no worse sound in the world than somebody who cannot playthe violin who insists on doing so anyway.”At the time, the Baudelaires had merely giggled, but as they listened outside the viceprincipal’s door, they realized that their father had been absolutely right. When they firstapproached the heavy wooden door, it sounded like a small animal was having a tempertantrum. But as they listened more closely, the children realized it was somebody whocannot play the violin insisting on doing so anyway. The sounds shrieked and hissed andscratched and moaned and made other horrible sounds that are really impossible todescribe, and finally Violet could take it no longer and knocked on the door. She had toknock very hard and at length, in order to be heard over the atrocious violin recital goingon inside, but at last the wooden door opened with a creak and there stood a tall man witha violin under his chin and an angry glare in his eyes.“Who dares interrupt a genius when he is rehearsing?” he asked, in a voice so loud andbooming that it was enough to make anyone shy all over again.“The Baudelaires,” Klaus said quietly, looking at the floor. “Mr. Poe said to comeright to Vice Principal Nero’s office.”“Mr. Poe said to come right to Vice Principal Nero’s office,” the man mimicked in ahigh, shrieky voice. “Well, come in, come in, I don’t have all afternoon.”The children stepped into the office and got a better look at the man who had mockedthem. He was dressed in a rumpled brown suit that had something sticky on its jacket, andhe was wearing a tie decorated with pictures of snails. His nose was very small and veryred, as if somebody had stuck a cherry tomato in the middle of his splotchy face. He wasalmost completely bald, but he had four tufts of hair, which he had tied into little pigtailswith some old rubber bands. The Baudelaires had never seen anybody who looked likehim before and they weren’t particularly interested in looking at him any further, but hisoffice was so small and bare that it was difficult to look at anything else. There was asmall metal desk with a small metal chair behind it and a small metal lamp to one side.The office had one window, decorated with curtains that matched the man’s tie. The onlyother object in the room was a shiny computer, which sat in a corner of the room like atoad. The computer had a blank gray screen and several buttons as red as the pigtailedman’s nose.“Ladies and gentlemen,” the man announced in a loud voice, “Vice Principal Nero!”There was a pause, and the three children looked all around the tiny room, wonderingwhere Nero had been hiding all this time. Then they looked back at the man with thepigtails, who was holding both hands up in the air, his violin and bow almost touching theceiling, and they realized that the man he had just introduced so grandly was himself. Neropaused for a moment and looked down at the Baudelaires.“It is traditional,” he said sternly, “to applaud when a genius has been introduced.”Just because something is traditional is no reason to do it, of course. Piracy, forexample, is a tradition that has been carried on for hundreds of years, but that doesn’tmean we should all attack ships and steal their gold. But Vice Principal Nero looked soferocious that the chil-drcn felt this was a time to honor tradition, so they began clappingtheir hands and didn’t stop until Nero took several bows and sat down in his chair.“Thank you very much, and welcome to Prufrock Preparatory School, blah blah blah”he said, using the word “blah” to mean that he was too bored to finish his sentenceproperly. “I’m certainly doing Mr. Poe a favor in taking on three orphans at such shortnotice. He assured me that you won’t cause any trouble, but I did a little research of myown. You’ve been sent to legal guardian after legal guardian, and adversity has alwaysfollowed. ‘Adversity’ means ‘trouble,’ by the way.”“In our case,” Klaus said, not pointing out that he already knew what the word“adversity” meant, “‘adversity’ means Count Olaf. He was the cause of all the trouble withour guardians.”“He was the cause of all the trouble with our guardians,” Nero said in his nasty,mimicking way. “I’m not interested in your problems, quite frankly. I am a genius andhave no time for anything other than playing the violin. It’s depressing enough that I hadto take this job as vice principal because not a single orchestra appreciates my genius. I’mnot going to depress myself further by listening to the problems of three bratty children.Anyway, here at Prufrock Prep there’ll be no blaming your own weaknesses on this CountOlaf person. Look at this.”Vice Principal Nero walked over to the computer and pressed two buttons over and overagain. The screen lit up with a light green glow, as if it were seasick. “This is an advancedcomputer,” Nero said. “Mr. Poe gave me all the necessary information about the man youcall Count Olaf, and I programmed it into the computer. See?” Nero pressed anotherbutton, and a small picture of Count Olaf appeared on the computer screen. “Now that theadvanced computer knows about him, you don’t have to worry.”“But how can a computer keep Count Olaf away?” Klaus asked. “He could still showup and cause trouble, no matter what appears on a computer screen.”“I shouldn’t have bothered trying to explain this to you,” Vice Principal Nero said.“There’s no way uneducated people like yourself can understand a genius like me. Well,Prufrock Prep will take care of that. You’ll get an education here if we have to break bothyour arms to do it. Speaking of which, I’d better show you around. Come here to thewindow.”The Baudelaire orphans walked to the window and looked down at the brown lawn.From the ninth floor, all the children running around looked like tiny ants, and thesidewalk looked like a ribbon somebody had thrown away. Nero stood behind the siblingsand pointed at things with his violin.“Now, this building you’re in is the administrative building. It is completely off-limitsto students. Today is your first day, so I’ll forgive you, but if I see you here again, you willnot be allowed to use silverware at any of your meals. That gray building over therecontains the classrooms. Violet, you will be studying with Mr. Remora in Room One, andKlaus, you will be studying with Mrs. Bass in Room Two. Can you remember that, RoomOne and Room Two? If you don’t think you can remember, I have a felt-tipped marker,and I will write ‘Room One’ and ‘Room Two’ on your hands in permanent ink.”“We can remember,” Violet said quickly. “But which classroom is Sunny’s?”Vice Principal Nero drew himself up to his full height, which in his case was five feet,ten inches. “Prufrock Preparatory School is a serious academy, not a nursery school. I toldMr. Poe that we would have room for the baby here, but we do not have a classroom forher. Sunny will be employed as my secretary.”“Aregg?” Sunny asked incredulously. “Incredulously” is a word which here means “notbeing able to believe it,” and “Aregg” is a word which here means “What? I can’t believeit.”“But Sunny’s a baby” Klaus said. “Babies aren’t supposed to have jobs.”“Babies aren’t supposed to have jobs ” Nero mimicked again, and then continued.“Well, babies aren’t supposed to be at boarding schools, either,” Nero pointed out.“Nobody can teach a baby anything, so she’ll work for me. All she has to do is answer thephone and take care of paperwork. It’s not very difficult, and it’s an honor to work for agenius, of course. Now, if either of you are late for class, or Sunny is late for work, yourhands will be tied behind your back during meals. You’ll have to lean down and eat yourfood like a dog. Of course, Sunny will always have her silverware taken away, becauseshe will work in the administrative building, where she’s not allowed.”“That’s not fair!” Violet cried.“That’s not fair!” the vice principal squealed back at her. “The stone building over therecontains the cafeteria. Meals are served promptly at breakfast time, lunchtime, anddinnertime. If you’re late we take away your cups and glasses, and your beverages will beserved to you in large puddles. That rectangular building over there, with the rounded top,is the auditorium. Every night I give a violin recital for six hours, and attendance ismandatory. The word ‘mandatory’ means that if you don’t show up, you have to buy me alarge bag of candy and watch me eat it. The lawn serves as our sports facility. Our regulargym teacher, Miss Tench, accidentally tell out of a third-story window a few days ago, butwe have a replacement, who should arrive shortly. In the meantime, I’ve instructed thechildren just to run around as fast as they can during gym time. I think that just aboutcovers everything. Are there any questions?”“Could anything be worse than this?” was the question Sunny had, but she was too wellmannered to ask this. “Are you kidding about all these incredibly cruel punishments andrules?” was the question Klaus thought of, but he already knew that the answer was no.Only Violet thought of a question that seemed useful to ask.“I have a question, Vice Principal Nero,” she said. “Where do we live?”Nero’s response was so predictable that the Baudelaire orphans could have said it alongwith this miserable administrator. “Where do we live?” he said in his high, mocking tone,but when he was done making fun of the children he decided to answer it. “We have amagnificent dormitory here at Prufrock Prep,” he said. “You can’t miss it. It’s a graybuilding, entirely made of stone and shaped like a big toe. Inside is a huge living roomwith a brick fireplace, a game room, and a large lending library. Every student has his orher own room, with a bowl of fresh fruit placed there every Wednesday. Doesn’t thatsound nice?”“Yes, it does,” Klaus admitted.“Keeb!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “I like fruit!”“I’m glad you think so,” Nero said, “although you won’t get to see much of the place.In order to live in the dormitory, you must have a permission slip with the signature of aparent or guardian. Your parents are dead, and Mr. Poe tells me that your guardians haveeither been killed or have fired you.”“But surely Mr. Poe can sign our permission slip,” Violet said.“He surely can not” Nero replied. “He is neither your parent nor your guardian. He is abanker who is in charge of your affairs.”“But that’s more or less the same thing,” Klaus protested.“That’s more or less the same thing,” Nero mimicked. “Perhaps after a few semesters atPrufrock Prep, you’ll learn the difference between a parent and a banker. No, I’m afraidyou’ll have to live in a small shack, made entirely of tin. Inside there is no living room, nogame room, and no lending library whatsoever. You three will each have your own bale ofhay to sleep on, but no fruit. It’s a dismal place, but Mr. Poe tells me that you’ve had anumber of uncomfortable experiences, so I figured you’d be used to such things.”“Couldn’t you please make an exception?” Violet asked.“I’m a violinist!” Nero cried. “I have no time to make exceptions! I’m too busypracticing the violin. So if you will kindly leave my office, I can get back to work.”Klaus opened his mouth to say something more, but when he looked at Nero, he knewthat there was no use saying another word to such a stubborn man, and he glumly followedhis sisters out of the vice principal’s office. When the office door shut behind them,however, Vice Principal Nero said another word, and he said it three times. The threechildren listened to these three words that he said and knew for certain that he had notbeen sorry at all. For as soon as the Baudelaires left the office and Nero thought he wasalone, he said to him-self, Hee hee hee.”Now, the vice principal of Prufrock Preparatory School did not actually say thesyllables hee hee hee,“ of course. Whenever you see the words ”hee hee hee“ in a book, or”ha ha ha,“ or ”har har har,“ or ”heh heh heh,“ or even ”ho ho ho,“ those words meansomebody was laughing. In this case, however, the words ”hee hee hee” cannot reallydescribe what Vice Principal Nero’s laugh sounded like. The laugh was squeaky, and itwas wheezy, and it had a rough, crackly edge to it, as if Nero were eating tin cans as helaughed at the children. But most of all, the laugh sounded cruel. It is always cruel tolaugh at people, of course, although sometimes if they are wearing an ugly hat it is hard tocontrol yourself. But the Baudelaires were not wearing ugly hats. They were youngchildren receiving bad news, and if Vice Principal Nero really had to laugh at them, heshould have been able to control himself until the siblings were out of earshot. But Nerodidn’t care about controlling himself, and as the Baudelaire orphans listened to the laugh,they realized that what their father had said to them that night when he’d come home fromthe symphony was wrong.There was a worse sound in the world than somebody who cannot play the violininsisting on doing so anyway. The sound of an administrator laughing a squeaky, wheezy,rough, crackly, cruel laugh at children who have to live in a shack was much, much worse.So as I hide out here in this mountain cabin and write the words “hee hee hee,” and you,wherever you are hiding out, read the words “hee hee hee,” you should know that “hee heehee” stands for the worst sound the Baudelaires had ever heard.constantly causing problems. They are very tall, and when people try to climb themthey often fall off, or get lost and die of starvation. Sometimes two countries fight overwho really owns a mountain, and thousands of people have to go to war and come homegrumpy or wounded. And, of course, mountains serve as homes to mountain goats andmountain lions, who enjoy attacking helpless picnickers and eating sandwiches orchildren. So when someone is making a mountain out of a molehill, they are pretendingthat something is as horrible as a war or a ruined picnic when it is really only as horribleas a stubbed toe.When the Baudelaire orphans reached the shack where they were going to live,however, they realized that Vice Principal Nero hadn’t been making a mountain out of amolehill at all when he had said that the shack was a dismal place. If anything, he hadbeen making a molehill out of a mountain. It was true that the shack was tiny, as Nero hadsaid, and made of tin, and if was true that there was no living room, no game room, and nolending library. It was true that there were three bales of hay instead of beds, and that therewas absolutely no fresh fruit in sight. But Vice Principal Nero had left out a few details inhis description, and it was these details that made the shack even worse. The first detailthe Baudelaires noticed was that the shack was infested with small crabs, each one aboutthe size of a matchbox, scurrying around the wooden floor with their tiny claws snappingin the air. As the children walked across the shack to sit glumly on one of the bales of hay,they were disappointed to learn that the crabs were territorial, a word which here means“unhappy to see small children in their living quarters.” The crabs gathered around thechildren and began snapping their claws at them. Luckily, the crabs did not have verygood aim, and luckily, their claws were so small that they probably wouldn’t hurt anymore than a good strong pinch, but even if they were more or less harmless they did notmake for a good shack.When the children reached the bale of hay and sat down, tucking their legs up underthem to avoid the snapping crabs, they looked up at the ceiling and saw another detailNero had neglected to mention. Some sort of fungus was growing on the ceiling, a fungusthat was light tan and quite damp. Every few seconds, small drops of moisture would fallfrom the fungus with a plop! and the children had to duck to avoid getting light tan fungusjuice on them. Like the small crabs, the plop!ing fungus did not appear to be very harmful,but also like the small crabs, the fungus made the shack even more uncomfortable than thevice principal had described it.And lastly, as the children sat on the bale of hay with their legs tucked beneath themand ducked to avoid fungus juice, they saw one more harmless but unpleasant detail of theshack that was worse than Nero had led them to believe, and that was the color of thewalls.Each tin wall was bright green, with tiny pink hearts painted here and there as if theshack were an enormous, tacky Valentine’s Day card instead of a place to live, and theBaudelaires found that they would rather look at the bales of hay, or the small crabs on thefloor, or even the light tan fungus on the ceiling than the ugly walls.Overall, the shack wastoo miserable to serve as a storage space for old banana peels, let alone as a home for threeyoung people, and I confess that if I had been told that it was my home I probably wouldhave lain on the bales of hay and thrown a temper tantrum. But the Baudelaires hadlearned long ago that temper tantrums, however fun they may be to throw, rarely solvewhatever problem is causing them. So after a long, miserable silence, the orphans tried tolook at their situation in a more positive light. ““This isn’t such a nice room,” Violet said finally, “but if I put my mind to it, I bet I caninvent something that can keep these crabs away from us.”“And I’m going to read up on this light tan fungus,” Klaus said. “Maybe the dormitorylibrary has information on how to stop it from dripping.”“Ivoser,” Sunny said, which meant something like “I bet I can use my four sharp teethto scrape this paint away and make the walls a bit less ugly.”Klaus gave his baby sister a little kiss on the top of her head. “At least we get to go toschool,” he pointed out. “I’ve missed being in a real classroom.”“Me too,” Violet agreed. “And at least we’ll meet some people our own age. We’veonly had the company of adults for quite some time.”“Wonic,” Sunny said, which probably meant “And learning secretarial skills is anexciting opportunity for me, although I should really be in nursery school instead.”“That’s true,” Klaus said. “And who knows? Maybe the advanced computer really cankeep Count Olaf away, and that’s the most important thing of all.”“You’re right,” Violet said. “Any room that doesn’t have Count Olaf in it is goodenough for me.”“Olo,” Sunny said, which meant “Even if it’s ugly, damp, and filled with crabs.”The children sighed and then sat quietly for a few moments. The shack was quiet,except for the snapping of tiny crab claws, the plop! of fungus, and the sighs of theBaudelaires as they looked at the ugly walls. Try as they might, the youngsters justcouldn’t make the shack into a molehill. No matter how much they thought of realclassrooms, people their own age, or the exciting opportunity of secretarial skills, theirnew home seemed much, much worse than even the sorest of stubbed toes.“Well,” Klaus said after a while, “it feels like it’s about lunchtime. Remember, if we’relate they take away our cups and glasses’s so we should probably get a move on.”“Those rules are ridiculous,” Violet said, ducking to avoid a plop! “Lunchtime isn’t aspecific time, so you can’t be late for it. It’s just a word that means ‘around lunch.’”“I know,” Klaus said, “and the part about Sunny being punished for going to theadministrative building, when she has to go there to be Nero’s secretary, is completelyabsurd.”“Kalc!” Sunny said, putting her little hand on her brother’s knee. She meant somethinglike “Don’t worry about it. I’m a baby, so I hardly ever use silverware. It doesn’t matterthat it’ll be taken away from me.”Ridiculous rules or not, the orphans did not want to be punished, so the three of themwalked gingerly-the word “gingerly” here means “avoiding territorial crabs”-across theshack and out onto the brown lawn. Gym class must have been over, because all therunning children were gone, and this only made the Baudelaires walk even more quicklyto the cafeteria.Several years before this story took place, when Violet was ten and Klaus was eight andSunny was not even a fetus, the Baudelaire family went to a county fair in order to see apig that their Uncle Elwyn had entered in a contest. The pig contest turned out to be a bitdull, but in the neighboring tent there was another contest that the family found quiteinteresting: the Biggest Lasagna Contest. The lasagna that won the blue ribbon had beenbaked by eleven nuns, and was as big and soft as a large mattress. Perhaps because theywere at such an impressionable age-the phrase “impressionable age” here means “ten andeight years old, respectively”- Violet and Klaus always remembered this lasagna, and theywere sure they would never see another one anywhere near as big.Violet and Klaus were wrong. When the Baudelaires entered the cafeteria, they found alasagna waiting for them that was the size of a dance floor. It was sitting on top of anenormous trivet to keep it from burning the floor, and the person serving it was wearing athick metal mask as protection, so that the children could only see their eyes peeking outfrom tiny eyeholes. The stunned Baudelaires got into a long line of children and waitedtheir turn for the metal masked person to scoop lasagna onto ugly plastic trays and hand itwordlessly to the children. After receiving their lasagna, the orphans walked further downthe line and helped themselves to green salad, which was waiting for them in a bowl thesize of a pickup truck. Next to the salad was a mountain of garlic bread, and at the end ofthe line was another metal-masked person, handing out silverware to the students who hadnot been inside the administrative building.The Baudelaires said “thank you” to the person, who gave them a slow metallic nod inreturn. They took a long look around the crowded cafeteria. Hundreds of children hadalready received their lasagna and were sitting at long rectangular tables. The Baudelairessaw several other children who had undoubtedly been in the administrative building,because they had no silverware. They saw several more students who had their hands tiedbehind their backs as punishment for being late to class. And they saw several studentswho had a sad look on their faces, as if they had been forced to buy somebody a bag ofcandy and watch them eat it, and the orphans guessed that these students had failed toshow up to one of Nero’s six-hour concerts.But it was none of these punishments that made the Baudelaire orphans pause for solong. It was the fact that they did not know where to sit. Cafeterias can be confusingplaces, because there are different rules for each one, and sometimes it is difficult to knowwhere one should eat. Normally, the Baudelaires would simply eat with one of theirfriends, but their friends were far, far away from Prufrock Preparatory School , and Violet,Klaus, and Sunny gazed around the cafeteria full of strangers and thought they mightnever put down their ugly trays. Finally, they caught the eye of the girl they had seen onthe lawn, who had called them such a strange name, and walked a few steps toward her.Now, you and I know that this loathsome little girl was Carmelita Spats, but theBaudelaires had not been properly introduced to her and so did not realize just howloathsome she was, although as the orphans drew closer she gave them an instanteducation.“Don’t even think of eating around here, you cakesniffers!” Carmelita Spats cried, andseveral of her rude, filthy, violent friends nodded in agreement. “Nobody wants to havelunch with people who live in the Orphans Shack!”“I’m terribly sorry,” Klaus said, although he wasn’t terribly sorry at all. “I didn’t meanto disturb you.”Carmelita, who had apparently never been to the administrative building, picked up hersilverware and began to bang it on her tray in a rhythmic and irritating way. “Cakesniffingorphans in the Orphans Shack! Cakesniffing orphans in the Orphans Shack!” she chanted,and to the Baudelaires’ dismay, many other children joined right in. Like many other rude,violent, filthy people, Carmelita Spats had a bunch of friends who were always happy tohelp her torment people-probably to avoid being tor-mented themselves. In a few seconds,it seemed like the entire cafeteria was banging their silverware and chanting,“Cakesniffing orphans in the Orphans Shack!” The three siblings stepped closer together,craning their necks to see if there was any possible place to which they could escape andeat their lunch in peace.“Oh, leave them alone, Carmelita!” a voice cried over the chanting. The Baudelairesturned around and saw a boy with very dark hair and very wide eyes. He looked a littleolder than Klaus and a little younger than Violet and had a dark green notebook tuckedinto the pocket of his thick wool sweater. “You’re the cakesniffer, and nobody in theirright mind would want to eat with you anyway. Come on,” the boy said, turning to theBaudelaires. “There’s room at our table.”“Thank you very much,” Violet said in relief and followed the boy to a table that hadplenty of room. He sat down next to a girl who looked absolutely identical to the boy. Shelooked about the same age, and also had very dark hair, very wide eyes, and a notebooktucked into the pocket of her thick wool sweater. The only difference seemed to be that thegirl’s notebook was pitch black. Seeing two people who look so much alike is a little biteerie, but it was better than looking at Carmelita Spats, so the Baudelaires sat down acrossfrom them and introduced themselves.“I’m Violet Baudelaire,” said Violet Baudelaire, “and this is my brother, Klaus, and ourbaby sister, Sunny.”“It’s nice to meet you,” said the boy. “My name is Duncan Quagmire, and this is mysister, Isadora. And the girl who was yelling at you, I’m sorry to say, was CarmelitaSpats.”“She didn’t seem very nice,” Klaus said.“That is the understatement of the century,” Isadora said. “Carmelita Spats is rude,filthy, and violent, and the less time you spend with her the happier you will be.”“Read the Baudelaires the poem you wrote about her,” Duncan said to his sister.“You write poetry?” Klaus asked. He had read a lot about poets but had never met one.“Just a little bit,” Isadora said modestly. “I write poems down in this notebook. It’s aninterest of mine.”“Sappho!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something like “I’d be very pleased to hear apoem of yours!”Klaus explained to the Quagmires what Sunny meant, and Isadora smiled and openedher notebook. “It’s a very short poem,” she said. “Only two rhyming lines.”“That’s called a couplet,” Klaus said. “I learned that from a book of literary criticism.”“Yes, 1 know,” Isadora said, and then read her poem, leaning forward so CarmelitaSpats would not overhear:“I would rather eat a bowl of vampire batsthan spend an hour with Carmelita Spats.”The Baudelaires giggled and then covered their mouths so nobody would know theywere laughing at Carmelita. “That was great,” Klaus said. “I like the part about the bowlof bats.”“Thanks,” Isadora said. “I would be interested in reading that book of literary criticismyou told me about. Would you let me borrow it?”Klaus looked down. “I can’t,” he said. “That book belonged to my father, and it wasdestroyed in a fire.”The Quagmires looked at one another, and their eyes grew even wider. “I’m verysorry to hear that,” Duncan said. “My sister and I have been through a terrible fire, so weknow what that’s like. Did your father die in the fire?”“Yes he did,” Klaus said, “and my mother too.”Isadora put down her fork, reached across the table, and patted Klaus on the hand.Normally this might have embarrassed Klaus a little bit, hut under the circumstances it feltperfectly natural. “I’m so sorry to hear that,” she said. “Our parents died in a fire as well.It’s awful to miss your parents so much, isn’t it?”“Bloni,” Sunny said, nodding.’”“For a long time,” Duncan admitted, “I was afraid of any kind of fire. I didn’t even liketo look at stoves.”Violet smiled. “We stayed with a woman for a while, our Aunt Josephine, who wasafraid of stoves. She was afraid that they might explode.”“Explode!” Duncan said. “Even I wasn’t afraid as all that. Why aren’t you staying withyour Aunt Josephine now?”Now it was Violet’s turn to look down, and Duncan ‘s turn to reach across the table andtake her hand. “She died too,” Violet said. “To tell you the truth, Duncan , our lives havebeen very topsy-turvy for quite some time.”“I’m very sorry to hear it,” Duncan said, “and I wish I could tell you that things will getbetter here. But between Vice Principal Nero playing the violin, Carmelita Spats teasingus, and the dreadful Orphans Shack, Prufrock Prep is a pretty miserable place.”“I think it’s awful to call it the Orphans Shack,” Klaus said. “It’s a bad enough placewithout giving it an insulting nickname.”“The nickname is more of Carmelita’s handiwork, I’m sorry to say,” Isadora said.“Duncan and I had to live there for three semesters because we needed a parent orguardian to sign our permission slip, and we didn’t have one.”“That’s the same thing that happened to us!” Violet cried. “And when we asked Nero tomake an exception-”“He said he was too busy practicing the violin,” Isadora said, nodding as she finishedViolet’s sentence. “He always says that. Anyway, Carmelita called it the Orphans Shackwhen we were living there, and it looks like she’s going to keep on doing it.”“Well,” Violet sighed, “Carmelita’s nasty names are the least of our problems in theshack. How did you deal with the crabs when you lived there?”Duncan let go of her hand to take his notebook out of his pocket. “I use my notebook totake notes on things,” he explained. “I plan to be a newspaper reporter when I get a littleolder and I figure it’s good to start practicing. Here it is: notes on the crabs. They’re afraidof loud noises, you see, so I have a list of things we did to scare them away from us.”“Afraid of loud noises,” Violet repeated, and tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it outof her eyes.“When she ties her hair up like that,” Klaus explained to the Quagmires, “it means she’sthinking of an invention. My sister is quite an inventor.”“How about noisy shoes?” Violet said suddenly. “If we took small pieces of metal andglued them to our shoes? Then wherever we walked would make a loud noise, and I betwe’d hardly ever see those crabs.”“Noisy shoes!” Duncan cried. “Isadora and I lived in the Orphans Shack all that timeand never thought of noisy shoes!” He took a pencil out of his pocket and wrote “noisyshoes” in the dark green notebook, and then turned a page. “I do have a list of fungusbooks that are in the school library, if you need help with that tan stuff on the ceiling.”“Zatwal!” Sunny shrieked.“We’d love to see the library,” Violet translated. “It sure is lucky that we ran into youtwo twins.”Duncan’s and Isadora’s faces fell, an expression which does not mean that the front partof their heads actually fell to the ground. It simply means that the two siblings suddenlylooked very sad.“What’s wrong?” Klaus asked. “Did we say something that upset you?”“Twins,” Duncan said, so softly that the Baudelaires could barely hear him.“You are twins, aren’t you?” Violet asked. “You look just alike.”“We’re triplets,” Isadora said sadly.“I’m confused,” Violet said. “Aren’t triplets three people born at the same time?”“We were three people born at the same time,” Isadora explained, “but our brother,Quigley, died in the fire that killed our parents.”“I’m very sorry to hear that,” Klaus said. “Please forgive our calling you twins. Wemeant no disrespect to Quigley’s memory.”“Of course you didn’t,” Duncan said, giving the Baudelaires a small smile. “There’s noway you could have known. Come on, if you’re done with your lasagna we’ll show youthe library.”“And maybe we can find some pieces of metal,” Isadora said, “for noisy shoes.”The Baudelaire orphans smiled, and the five of them bussed their trays and walked outof the cafeteria. The library turned out to be a very pleasant place, but it was not thecomfortable chairs, the huge wooden bookshelves, or the hush of people reading that madethe three siblings feel so good as they walked into the room. It is useless for me to tell youall about the brass lamps in the shapes of different fish, or the bright blue curtains thatrippled like water as a breeze came in from the window, because although these werewonderful things they were not what made the three children smile. The Quagmire tripletswere smiling, too, and although I have not researched the Quagmires nearly as much as Ihave the Baudelaires, I can say with reasonable accuracy that they were smiling for thesame reason.It is a relief, in hectic and frightening times, to find true friends, and it was this reliefthat all five children were feeling as the Quagmires gave the Baudelaires a tour of thePrufrock Library. Friends can make you feel that the world is smaller and less sneaky thanit really is, because you know people who have similar experiences, a phrase which heremeans “having lost family members in terrible fires and lived in the Orphans Shack.” AsDuncan and Isadora whispered to Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, explaining how the librarywas organized, the Baudelaire children felt less and less distressed about their newcircumstances, and by the time Duncan and Isadora were recommending their favoritebooks, the three siblings thought that perhaps their troubles were coming to an end at last.They were wrong about this, of course, but tor the moment it didn’t matter. The Baudelaireorphans had found friends, and as they stood in the library with the Quagmire triplets, theworld felt smaller and safer than it had for a long, long time.A Series of Unfortunate Events 5 - TheAustere AcademyC H A P T E RFourIf you have walked into a museum recently- whether you did so to attend an artexhibition in to escape from the police-you may have noticed a type of painting known asa triptych. A triptych has three panels, with something different painted on each of thepanels. For instance, my friend Professor Reed made a triptych for me, and he painted fireon one panel, a typewriter on another, and the face of a beautiful, intelligent woman on thethird. The triptych is entitled What Happened to Beatrice and I cannot look upon itwithout weeping.I am a writer, and not a painter, but if I were to try and paint a triptych entitled TheBaudelaire Orphans’ Miserable Experiences at Prufrock Prep, I would paint Mr. Remoraon one panel, Mrs. Bass on another, and a box of staples on the third, and the resultswould make me so sad that between the Beatrice triptych and the Baudelaire triptych Iwould scarcely stop weeping all day.Mr. Remora was Violet’s teacher, and he was so terrible that Violet thought that she’dalmost rather stay in the Orphans Shack all morning and eat her meals with her hands tiedbehind her back rather than hurry to Room One and learn from such a wretched man. Mr.Remora had a dark and thick mustache, as if somebody had chopped off a gorilla’s thumband stuck it above Mr. Remora’s lip, and also like a gorilla, Mr. Remora was constantlyeating bananas. Bananas are a fairly delicious fruit and contain a healthy amount ofpotassium, but after watching Mr. Remora shove banana after banana into his mouth,dropping banana peels on the floor and smearing banana pulp on his chin and in hismustache, Violet never wanted to see another banana again. In between bites of banana,Mr. Remora would tell stories, and the children would write the stories down innotebooks, and every so often there would be a test. The stories were very short, and therewere a whole lot of them on every conceivable subject. “One day I went to the store topurchase a carton of milk,” Mr. Remora would say, chewing on a banana. “When I gothome, I poured the milk into a glass and drank it. Then I watched television. The end.” Or:“One after noon a man named Edward got into a green truck and drove to a farm. Thefarm had geese and cows. The end.” Mr. Remora would tell story after story, and eatbanana after banana, and it would get more and more difficult for Violet to pay attention.To make things better, Duncan sat next to Violet, and they would pass notes to one anotheron particularly boring days. But to make things worse, Carmelita Spats sat right behindViolet, and every few minutes she would lean forward and poke Violet with a stick shehad found on the lawn. “Orphan,” she would whisper and poke Violet with the stick, andViolet would lose her concentration and forget to write down some detail of Mr. Remora’slatest story.Across the hall in Room Two was Klaus’s teacher Mrs. Bass, whose black hair was solong and messy that she also vaguely resembled a gorilla. Mrs. Bass was a poor teacher, aphrase which here does not mean “a teacher who doesn’t have a lot of money” but “ateacher who is obsessed with the metric system.” The metric system, you probably know,is the system by which the majority of the world measures things. Just as it is perfectly allright to eat a banana or two, it is perfectly all right to be interested in measuring things.Klaus could remember a time, when he was about eight years old, when he had measuredthe width of all the doorways in the Baudelaire mansion when he was bored one rainyafternoon. But rain or shine, all Mrs. Bass wanted to do was measure things and writedown the measurements on the chalkboard. Each morning, she would walk into RoomTwo carrying a bag full of ordinary objects-a frying pan, a picture frame, the skeleton of acat-and place an object on each student’s desk. “Measure!” Mrs. Bass would shout, andeverybody would take out their rulers and measure whatever it was that their teacher hadput on their desks. They would call out the measurements to Mrs. Bass, who would writethem on the board and then have everybody switch objects. The class would continue onin this way for the entire morning, and Klaus would feel his eyes glaze over-the phrase“glaze over” here means “ache slightly out of boredom.” Across the room, IsadoraQuagmire’s eyes were glazing over too, and occasionally the two of them would look atone another and stick their tongues out as if to say, Mrs. Bass is terribly boring, isn’t she?But Sunny, instead of going into a classroom, had to work in the administrativebuilding, and I must say that her situation was perhaps the worst in the entire triptych. AsVice Principal Nero’s secretary, Sunny had numerous duties assigned to her that weresimply impossible for a baby to perform. For instance, she was in charge of answering thetelephone, but people who called Vice Principal Nero did not always know that“Seltepia!” was Sunny’s way of saying “Good morning, this is Vice Principal Nero’soffice, how may I help you?” By the second day Nero was furious at her for confusing somany of his business associates. In addition, Sunny was in charge of typing, stapling, andmailing all of Vice Principal Nero’s letters, which meant she had to work a typewriter, astapler, and stamps, all of which were designed for adult use. Unlike many babies, Sunnyhad some experience in hard work-after all, she and her siblings had worked for some timeat the Lucky Smells Lumbermill-but this equipment was simply inappropriate for such l in y fingers. Sunny could scarcely move the typewriter’s keys, and even when she couldshe did not know how to spell most of the words Nero dictated. She had never used astapler before, so she sometimes stapled her fingers by mistake, which hurt quite a bit.And occasionally one of the stamps would stick to her tongue and wouldn’t come off.In most schools, no matter how miserable, the students have a chance to recuperateduring the weekend, when they can rest and play instead of attending wretched classes,and the Baudelaire orphans looked forward to taking a break from looking at bananas,rulers, and secretarial supplies. So they were quite distressed one Friday when theQuagmires informed them that Prufrock Prep did not have weekends. Saturday andSunday were regular schooldays, supposedly in keeping with the school’s motto. This ruledid not really make any sense-it is, after all, just as easy to remember you will die whenyou are relaxing as when you are in school-but that was the way things were, so theBaudelaires could never remember exactly what day it was, so repetitive was theirschedule. So I am sorry to say that I cannot tell you what day it was when Sunny noticedthat the staple supply was running low, but I can tell you that Nero informed her thatbecause she had wasted so much time learning to be a secretary he would not buy anymore when they ran out. Instead Sunny would have to make staples herself, out of someskinny metal rods Nero kept in a drawer.“That’s ridiculous!” Violet cried when Sunny told her of Nero’s latest demand. It wasafter dinner, and the Baudelaire orphans were in the Orphans Shack with the Quagmiretriplets, sprinkling salt at the ceiling. Violet had found some pieces of metal behind thecafeteria and had fashioned five pairs of noisy shoes: three for the Baudelaires and two forthe Quagmires so the crabs wouldn’t bother them when they visited the Orphans Shack.The problem of the tan fungus, however, was yet to be solved. With Duncan ‘s help, Klaushad found a book on fungus in the library and had read that salt might make this particularfungus shrivel up. The Quagmires had distracted some of the masked cafeteria workers bydropping their trays on the ground, and while Nero yelled at them for making a mess, theBaudelaires had slipped three saltshakers into their pockets. Now, in the brief recess afterdinner, the five children were sitting on bales of hay, trying to toss salt onto the fungus andtalking about their day.“It certainly is ridiculous,” Klaus agreed. “It’s silly enough that Sunny has to be asecretary, but making her own staples? I’ve never heard of anything so unfair.”“I think staples are made in factories,” Duncan said, pausing to flip through his greennotebook to see if he had any notes on the matter. “I don’t think people have made staplesby hand since the fifteenth century.”“If you could snitch some of the skinny metal rods, Sunny,” Isadora said, “we could allhelp make the staples after dinnertime. If five of us worked together, it would be muchless trouble. And speaking of trouble, I’m working on a poem about Count Olaf, but I’mnot sure I know words that are terrible enough to describe him.”“And I imagine it’s difficult to find words that rhyme with ‘Olaf,’” Violet said.“It is difficult,” Isadora admitted. “All I can think of so far is ‘pilaf,’ which is a kind ofrice dish. And that’s more a half-rhyme, anyway.”“Maybe someday you’ll be able to publish your poem about Count Olaf,” Klaus said,“and everyone will know how horrible he is.”“And I’ll write a newspaper article all about him,” Duncan volunteered.“I think I could build a printing press myself,” Violet said. “Maybe when I come of age,I can use some of the Baudelaire fortune to buy the materials I would need.”“Could we print books, too?” Klaus asked.Violet smiled. She knew her brother was thinking of a whole library they could print forthemselves. “Books, too,” she said.“The Baudelaire fortune?” Duncan asked. “Did your parents leave behind a fortune,too? Our parents owned the famous Quagmire sapphires, which were unharmed in the fire.When we come of age, those precious jewels will belong to us. We could start our printingbusiness together.”“That’s a wonderful idea!” Violet cried. “We could call it Quagmire- BaudelaireIncorporated.”“We could call it Quagmire-Baudelaire Incorporated!” The children were so surprisedto hear the sneering voice of Vice Principal Nero that they dropped their saltshakers on theground. Instantly, the tiny crabs in the Orphans Shack picked them up and scurried awaywith them before Nero could notice. “I’m sorry to interrupt you in the middle of yourimportant business meeting,” he said, although the youngsters could see that the viceprincipal wasn’t sorry one bit. “The new gym teacher has arrived, and he was interested inmeeting our orphan population before my concert began. Apparently orphans haveexcellent bone structure or something. Isn’t that what you said, Coach Genghis?”“Oh yes,” said a tall, skinny man, who stepped forward to reveal himself to thechildren. The man was wearing sweatpants and a sweatshirt, such as any gym teachermight wear. On his feet were some expensive-looking running shoes with very high tops,and around his neck was a shiny silver whistle. Wrapped around the top of his head was alength of cloth secured in place with a shiny red jewel. Such things are called turbans andare worn by some people for religious reasons, but Violet, Klaus, and Sunny took one lookat this man and knew that he was wearing a turban for an entirely different reason.“Oh yes,” the man said again. “All orphans have perfect legs for running, and I couldn’twait to see what specimens were waiting for me here in the shack.”“Children,” Nero said, “get up off of your hay and say hello to Coach Genghis.”“Hello, Coach Genghis,” Duncan said.“Hello, Coach Genghis,” Isadora said.The Quagmire triplets each shook Coach Genghis’s bony hand and then turned andgave the Baudelaires a confused look. They were clearly surprised to see the three siblingsstill sitting on the hay and staring up at Coach Genghis rather than obeying Nero’s orders.But had I been there in the Orphans Shack, I most certainly would not have beensurprised, and I would bet What Happened to Beatrice, my prized triptych, that had youbeen there you would not have been surprised, either. Because you have probably guessed,as the Baudelaires guessed, why the man who was calling himself Coach Genghis waswearing a turban. A turban covers people’s hair, which can alter their appearance quite abit, and if the turban is arranged so that it hangs down rather low, as this one did, the foldsof cloth can even cover the eyebrows-or in this case, eyebrow-of the person wearing it.But it cannot cover someone’s shiny, shiny eyes, or the greedy and sinister look thatsomebody might have in their eyes when the person looks down at three relativelyhelpless children.What the man who called himself Coach Genghis had said about all orphans havingperfect legs for running was utter nonsense, of course, but as the Baudelaires looked up attheir new gym teacher, they wished that it weren’t nonsense. As the man who calledhimself Coach * Genghis looked back at them with his shiny, shiny eyes, the Baudelaireorphans wished more than anything that their legs could carry them far, far away from theman who was really Count Olaf.end up drowning simply because somebody else thought of it first.This is why, when Violet stood up from the hay and said, “How do you do, CoachGenghis?” Klaus and Sunny were reluctant to follow suit. It was inconceivable to theyounger Baudelaires that their sister had not recognized Count Olaf, and that she hadn’tleaped to her feet and informed Vice Principal Nero what was going on. For a moment,Klaus and Sunny even considered that Violet had been hypnotized, as Klaus had beenback when the Baudelaire orphans were living in Paltryville. But Violet’s eyes did notlook any wider than they did normally, nor did she say “How do you do, Coach Genghis?”in the dazed tone of voice Klaus had used when he had been under hypnosis.But although they were puzzled, the younger Baudelaires trusted their sister absolutely.She had managed to avoid marrying Count Olaf when it had seemed like it would beinevitable, a word which here means “a lifetime of horror and woe.” She had made alockpick when they’d needed one in a hurry, and had used her inventing skills to helpthem escape from some very hungry leeches. So even though they could not think whatthe reason was, Klaus and Sunny knew that Violet must have had a good reason to greetCount Olaf politely rather than reveal him instantly, and so, after a pause, they followedsuit.“How do you do, Coach Genghis?” Klaus said.“Gefidio!” Sunny shrieked.“It’s a pleasure to meet you,” Coach Genghis said, and smirked. The Baudelaires couldtell he thought he had fooled them completely and was very pleased with himself.“What do you think, Coach Genghis?” Vice Principal Nero asked. “Do any of theseorphans have the legs you’re looking for?”Coach Genghis scratched his turban and looked down at the children as if they were anall-you-can-eat salad bar instead of five orphans. “Oh yes,” he said in the wheezy voicethe Baudelaires still heard in their nightmares. With his bony hands, he pointed first atViolet, then at Klaus, and lastly at Sunny.“These three children here are just what I’m looking for, all right. I have no use forthese twins, however.”“Neither do I,” Nero said, not bothering to point out that the Quagmires were triplets.He then looked at his watch. “Well, it’s time for my concert. Follow me to the auditorium,all of you, unless you are in the mood to buy me a bag of candy.”The Baudelaire orphans hoped never to buy their vice principal a gift of any sort, letalone a bag of candy, which the children loved and hadn’t eaten in a very long time, sothey followed Nero out of the Orphans Shack and across the lawn to the auditorium. TheQuagmires followed suit, staring up at the gravestone buildings, which looked evenspookier in the moonlight.“This evening,” Nero said, “I will be playing a violin sonata I wrote myself. It onlylasts about a half hour, but I will play it twelve times in a row.”“Oh, good,” Coach Genghis said. “If I may say so, Vice Principal Nero, I am anenormous fan of your music. Your concerts were one of the main reasons I wanted to workhere at Prufrock Prep.”“Well, it’s good to hear that,” Nero said. “It’s difficult to find people who appreciate meas the genius I am.”“I know the feeling,” Coach Genghis said. “I’m the finest gym teacher the world hasever seen, and yet there hasn’t even been one parade in my honor.”“Shocking,” Nero said, shaking his head.The Baudelaires and the Quagmires, who were walking behind the adults, looked at oneanother in disgust at the braggy conversation they were overhearing, but they didn’t darespeak to one another until they arrived at the auditorium, taking seats as far away aspossible from Carmelita Spats and her loathsome friends.There is one, and only one, advantage to somebody who cannot play the violin insistingon doing so anyway, and the advantage is that they often play so loudly that they cannothear if the audience is having a conversation. It is extremely rude, of course, for anaudience to talk during a concert performance, but when the performance is a wretchedone, and lasts six hours, such rudeness can be forgiven. So it was that evening, for afterintroducing himself with a brief, braggy speech, Vice Principal Nero stood on the stage ofthe auditorium and began playing his sonata for the first time.When you listen to a piece of classical music, it is often amusing to try and guess whatinspired the composer to write those particular notes. Sometimes a composer will beinspired by nature and will write a symphony imitating the sounds of birds and trees.Other times a composer will be inspired by the city and will write a concerto imitating thesounds of traffic and sidewalks. In the case of this sonata, Nero had apparently beeninspired by somebody beating up a cat, because the music was loud and screechy andmade it quite easy to talk during the performance. As Nero sawed away at his violin, thestudents of Prufrock Prep began to talk amongst themselves. The Baudelaires even noticedMr. Remora and Mrs. Bass, who were supposed to be figuring out which students owedNero bags of candy, giggling and sharing a banana in the back row. Only Coach Genghis,who was sitting in the center of the very front row, seemed to be paying any attention tothe music.“Our new gym teacher looks creepy,” Isadora said.“That’s for sure,” Duncan agreed. “It’s that sneaky look in his eye.”“That sneaky look,” Violet said, taking a sneaky look herself to make sure CoachGenghis wasn’t listening in, “is because he’s not really Coach Genghis. He’s not really anycoach. He’s Count Olaf in disguise.”“I knew you recognized him!” Klaus said.“Count Olaf?” Duncan said. “How awful! How did he follow you here?”“Stewak,” Sunny said glumly.“My sister means something like ‘He follows us everywhere,’” Violet explained, “andshe’s right. But it doesn’t matter how he found us. The point is that he’s here and that heundoubtedly has a scheme to snatch our fortune.”“But why did you pretend not to recognize him?” Klaus asked.“Yes,” Isadora said. “If you told Vice Principal Nero that he was really Count Olaf, thenNero could throw the cakesniffer out of here, if you’ll pardon my language.”Violet shook her head to indicate that she disagreed with Isadora and that she didn’tmind about “cakesniffer.” “Olaf’s too clever for that,” she said. “I knew that if I tried totell Nero that he wasn’t really a gym teacher, he would manage to wiggle out of it, just ashe did with Aunt Josephine and Uncle Monty and everybody else.”“That’s good thinking,” Klaus admitted.“Plus, if Olaf thinks that he’s fooled us, it might give us some more time to figure outexactly what he’s up to.”“Lirt!” Sunny pointed out.“My sister means that we can see if any of his assistants are around,” Violet translated.“That’s a good point, Sunny. I hadn’t thought of that.”“Count Olaf has assistants?” Isadora asked. “That’s not fair. He’s bad enough withoutpeople helping him.”“His assistants are as bad as he is,” Klaus said. “There are two powder-faced womenwho forced us to be in his play. There’s a hook-handed man who helped Olaf murder ourUncle Monty.”“And the bald man who bossed us around at the lumbermill, don’t forget him,” Violetadded.“Aeginu!” Sunny said, which meant something like “And the assistant that looks likeneither a man nor a woman.”“What does ‘aeginu’ mean?” Duncan asked, taking out his notebook. “I’m going towrite down all these details about Olaf and his troupe.”“Why?” Violet asked.“Why?” Isadora repeated. “Because we’re going to help you, that’s why! You don’tthink we’d just sit here while you tried to escape from Olaf’s clutches, would you?”“But Count Olaf is very dangerous,” Klaus said. “If you try and help us, you’ll berisking your lives.”“Never mind about that,” Duncan said, although I am sorry to tell you that theQuagmire triplets should have minded about that. They should have minded very much.Duncan and Isadora were very brave and caring to try and help the Baudelaire orphans,but bravery often demands a price. By “price” I do not mean something along the lines offive dollars. I mean a much, much bigger price, a price so dreadful that I cannot speak of itnow but must return to the scene I am writing at this moment.“Never mind about that,” Duncan said. “What we need is a plan. Now, we need toprove to Nero that Coach Genghis is really Count Olaf. How can we do that?”“Nero has that computer,” Violet said thoughtfully. “He showed us a little picture ofOlaf on the screen, remember?”“Yes,” Klaus said, shaking his head. “He told us that the advanced computer systemwould keep Olaf away. So much for computers.”Sunny nodded her head in agreement, and Violet picked her up and put her on her lap.Nero had reached a particularly shrieky section of his sonata, and the children had to leanforward to one another in order to continue their conversation. “If we go and see Nero firstthing tomorrow morning,” Violet said, “we can talk to him alone, without Olaf butting in.We’ll ask him to use the computer. Nero might not believe us, but the computer should beable to convince him to at least investigate Coach Genghis.”“Maybe Nero will make him take off the turban,” Isadora said, “revealing Olaf’s onlyeyebrow.”“Or take off those expensive-looking running shoes,” Klaus said, “revealing Olaf’stattoo.”“But if you talk to Nero,” Duncan said, “then Coach Genghis will know that you’resuspicious.”“That’s why we’ll have to be extra careful,” Violet said. “We want Nero to find outabout Olaf, without Olaf finding out about us.”“And in the meantime,” Duncan said, “Isadora and I will do some investigatingourselves. Perhaps we can spot one of these assistants you’ve described.”“That would be very useful,” Violet said, “if you’re sure about wanting to help us.”“Say no more about it,” Duncan said and patted Violet’s hand. And they said no moreabout it. They didn’t say another word about Count Olaf for the rest of Nero’s sonata, orwhile he performed it the second time, or the third time, or the fourth time, or the fifthtime, or even the sixth time, by which time it was very, very late at night. The Baudelaireorphans and the Quagmire triplets merely sat in a companionable comfort, a phrase whichhere means many things, all of them happy even though it is quite difficult to be happywhile hearing a terrible sonata performed over and over by a man who cannot play theviolin, while attending an atrocious boarding school with an evil man sitting nearbyundoubtedly planning something dreadful. But happy moments came rarely andunexpectedly in the Baudelaires’ lives, and the three siblings had learned to accept them.Duncan kept his hand on Violet’s and talked to her about terrible concerts he had attendedback when the Quagmire parents were alive, and she was happy to hear his stories. Isadorabegan working on a poem about libraries and showed Klaus what she had written in hernotebook, and Klaus was happy to offer suggestions. And Sunny snuggled down inViolet’s lap and chewed on the armrest of her seat, happy to bite something that was sosturdy.I’m sure you would know, even if I didn’t tell you, that things were about to get muchworse for the Baudelaires, but I will end this chapter with this moment of companionablecomfort rather than skip ahead to the unpleasant events of the next morning, or the terribletrials of the days that followed, or the horrific crime that marked the end of theBaudelaires’ time at Prufrock Prep. These things happened, of course, and there is no usepretending they didn’t. But for now let us ignore the terrible sonata, the dreadul teachers,the nasty, teasing students, and the even more wretched things that will be happening soonenough. Let us enjoy this brief moment of comfort, as the Baudelaires enjoyed it in thecompany of the Quagmire triplets and, in Sunny’s case, an armrest. Let us enjoy, at theend of this chapter, the last happy moment any of these children would have for a long,long time.by the building containing the auditorium, you would not hear the scrapings andshriekings of Vice Principal Nero playing the violin. If you went and stood beneath thearch, looking up at the black letters spelling out the name of the school and its austere-aword which here means “stern and severe”-motto, you would hear nothing but the swishof the breeze through the brown and patchy grass.In short, if you went and visited Prufrock Preparatory School today, the academy wouldlook more or less as it did when the Baudelaires woke up early the next morning andwalked to the administrative building to talk to Nero about Coach Genghis. The threechildren were so anxious to talk to him that they got up especially early, and as theywalked across the lawn it felt as if everyone else at Prufrock Prep had slipped away in themiddle of the night, leaving the orphans alone amongst the tombstone-shaped buildings. Itwas an eerie feeling, which is why Violet and Sunny were surprised when Klaus broke thesilence by laughing suddenly.“What are you snickering at?” Violet asked.“I just realized something,” Klaus said. “We’re going to the administrative buildingwithout an appointment. We’ll have to eat our meals without silverware.”“There’s nothing funny about that!” Violet said. “What if they serve oatmeal forbreakfast? We’ll have to scoop it up with our hands.”“Oot,” Sunny said, which meant “Trust me, it’s not that difficult,” and at that theBaudelaire sisters joined their brother in laughter. It was not funny, of course, that Neroenforced such terrible punishments, but the idea of eating oatmeal with their hands gaveall three siblings the giggles.“Or fried eggs!” Violet said. “What if they serve runny fried eggs?”“Or pancakes, covered in syrup!” Klaus said.“Soup!” Sunny shrieked, and they all broke out in laughter again.“Remember the picnic?” Violet said. “We were going to Rutabaga River for a picnic,and Father was so excited about the meal he made that he forgot to pack silverware!”“Of course I remember,” Klaus said. “We had to eat all that sweet-and-sour shrimp withour hands.“Sticky!” Sunny said, holding her hands up.“It sure was,” Violet agreed. “Afterward, we went to wash our hands in the river, andwe found a perfect place to try the fishing rod I made.”“And I picked blackberries with Mother,” Klaus said.“Eroos,” Sunny said, which meant something like “And I bit rocks.”The children stopped laughing now as they remembered that afternoon, which hadn’tbeen so very long ago but felt like it had happened in the distant, distant past. After thefire, the children had known their parents were dead, of course, but it had felt like they hadmerely gone away somewhere and would be back before long. Now, remembering the waythe sunlight had shone on the water of Rutabaga River and the laughter of their parents asthey’d made a mess of themselves eating the sweet-and-sour shrimp, the picnic seemed sofar away that they knew their parents were never coming back.“Maybe we’ll go back there,” Violet said quietly. “Maybe someday we can visit theriver again, and catch fish and pick blackberries.”“Maybe we can,” Klaus said, but the Baudelaires all knew that even if someday theywent back to Rutabaga River -which they never did, by the way that it would not be thesame. “Maybe we can, but in the meantime we’ve got to talk to Nero. Come on, here’s theadministrative building.”The Baudelaires sighed and walked into the building, surrendering the use of PrufrockPrep’s silverware. They climbed the stairs to the ninth floor and knocked on Nero’s door,surprised that they could not hear him practicing the violin. “Come in if you must,” Nerosaid, and the orphans walked in. Nero had his back to the door, looking at his reflection inthe window as he tied a rubber band around one of his pigtails. When he was finished, heheld both hands up in the air. “Ladies and gentlemen, Vice Principal Nero!” he announced,and the children began applauding obediently. Nero whirled around.“I only expected to hear one person clapping,” he said sternly. “Violet and Klaus,you’re not allowed up here. You know that.”“I beg your pardon, sir,” Violet said, “but all three of us have something very importantwe need to discuss with you.”“All three of us have something very important we need to discuss with you,” Neroreplied in his usual nasty way. “It must be important for you to sacrifice your silverwareprivileges. Well, well, out with it. I have a lot of rehearsing to do for my next concert, sodon’t waste my time.”“This won’t take long,” Klaus promised. He paused before continuing, which is a goodthing to do if you’re choosing your words very, very carefully. “We are concerned,” hecontinued, choosing his words very, very carefully, “that Count Olaf may have somehowmanaged to get to Prufrock Prep.”“Nonsense,” Nero said. “Now go away and let me practice the violin.”“But it might not be nonsense,” Violet said. “Olaf is a master of disguise. He could beright under our very noses and we wouldn’t know it.”“The only thing under my nose,” Nero said, “is my mouth, which is telling you toleave.”“Count Olaf could be Mr. Remora,” Klaus said. “Or Mrs. Bass.”“Mr. Remora and Mrs. Bass have taught at this school for more than forty seven years,”Nero said dismissively. “I would know if one of them were in disguise.”“What about the people who work at the cafeteria?” Violet asked. “They’re alwayswearing those metal masks.”“Those are for safety, not for disguises,” Nero said. “You brats have some very sillyideas. Next you’ll be saying that Count Olaf has disguised himself as your boyfriend,what’s-his-name, the triplet.”Violet blushed. “Duncan Quagmire is not my boyfriend,” she said, “and he’s not CountOlaf, either.”But Nero was too busy making idiotic jokes to listen. “Who knows?” he asked, andthen laughed again. “Hee hee hee. Maybe he’s disguised himself as Carmelita Spats.”“Or me!” came a voice from the doorway. The Baudelaires whirled around and sawCoach Genghis standing there with a red rose in his hand and a fierce look in his eye.“Or you!” Nero said. “Hee hee hee. Imagine this Olaf fellow pretending to be the finestgym teacher in the country.”Klaus looked at Coach Genghis and thought of all the trouble he had caused, whetherhe was pretending to be Uncle Monty’s assistant Stefano, or Captain Sham, or Shirley, orany of the other phony names he had used. Klaus wanted desperately to say “You areCount Olaf!” but he knew that if the Baudelaires pretended that Coach Genghis wasfooling them, they had a better chance of revealing his plan, whatever it was. So he bit histongue, a phrase which here means that he simply kept quiet. He did not actually bite histongue, but opened his mouth and laughed. “That would be funny!” he lied. “Imagine ifyou were really Count Olaf! Wouldn’t that be funny, Coach Genghis? That would meanthat your turban would really be a disguise!”“My turban?” Coach Genghis said. His fierce look melted away as he realizedincorrectly, of course-that Klaus was joking. “A disguise? Ho ho ho!”“Hee hee hee!” Nero laughed.Violet and Sunny both saw at once what Klaus was doing, and they followed suit. “Ohyes, Genghis,” Violet cried, as if she were joking, “take your turban off and show us theone eyebrow you are hiding! Ha ha ha!”“You three children are really quite funny!” Nero cried. “You’re like three professionalcomedians!”“Volasocks!” Sunny shrieked, showing all four teeth in a fake smile.“Oh yes,” Klaus said. “Sunny is right! If you were really Olaf in disguise, then yourrunning shoes would be covering your tattoo!”“Hee hee hee!” Nero said. “You children are like three clowns!”“Ho ho ho!” Count Olaf said.“Ha ha ha!” Violet said, who was beginning to feel queasy from faking all thislaughter. Looking up at Genghis, and smiling so hard that her teeth ached, she stood ontiptoe and tried to reach his turban. “I’m going to rip this off,” she said, as if she were stilljoking, “and show off your one eyebrow!”“Hee hee hee!” Nero said, shaking his pigtails in laughter. “You’re like three trainedmonkeys!”Klaus crouched down to the ground and grabbed one of Genghis’s feet.“And I’m going to rip your shoes off,” he said, as if he were still joking, “and show offyour tattoo!”“Hee hee hee!” Nero said. “You’re like three-”The Baudelaires didn’t get to hear what they were three of, because Coach Genghisstuck out both of his arms, catching Klaus with one hand and Violet with the other. “Ho hoho!” he said, and then abruptly stopped laughing. “Of course,” he said in a tone of voicethat was suddenly serious, “I can’t take off my running shoes, because I’ve beenexercising and my feet smell, and I can’t take off my turban for religious reasons.”“Hee hee-” Nero stopped giggling and became very serious himself.“Oh, Coach Genghis,” he said, “we wouldn’t ask you to violate your religious beliefs,and I certainly don’t want your feet stinking up my office.”Violet struggled to reach the turban and Klaus struggled to remove one of the evilcoach’s shoes, but Genghis held them both tight.“Drat!” Sunny shrieked.“Joke time is over!” Nero announced. “Thank you for brightening up my morning,children. Good-bye, and enjoy your breakfast without silverware! Now, Coach Genghis,what can I do for you?”“Well, Nero,” Genghis said, “I just wanted to give you this rose-a small gift ofcongratulations for the wonderful concert you gave us last night!”“Oh, thank you,” Nero said, taking the rose out of Genghis’s hand and giving it a goodsmell. “I was wonderful, wasn’t I?”“You were perfection!” Genghis said. “The first time you played your sonata, I wasdeeply moved. The second time, I had tears in my eyes. The third time, I was sobbing. Thefourth time, I had an uncontrollable emotional attack. The fifth time-”The Baudelaires did not hear about the fifth time because Nero’s door swung shutbehind them. They looked at one another in dismay. The Baudelaires had come very closeto revealing Coach Genghis’s disguise, but close was not enough. They trudged silentlyout of the administrative building and over to the cafe-teria. Evidently, Nero had alreadycalled the metal-masked cafeteria workers, because when Violet and Klaus reached theend of the line, the workers refused to hand them any silverware. Prufrock Prep was notserving oatmeal for breakfast, but Violet and Klaus knew that eating scrambled eggs withtheir hands was not going to be very pleasant.“Oh, don’t worry about that,” Isadora said when the children slid glumly into seatsbeside the Quagmires. “Here, Klaus and I will take turns with my silverware, and you canshare with Duncan , Violet. Tell us how everything went in Nero’s office.”“Not very well,” Violet admitted. “Coach Genghis got there right after we did, and wedidn’t want him to see that we knew who he really was.”Isadora pulled her notebook out of her pocket and read out loud to her friends.“It would be a stroke of luckif Coach Genghis were hit by a truck, “she read. “That’s my latest poem. I know it’s not that helpful, but I thought you mightlike to hear it anyway.”“I did like hearing it,” Klaus said. “And it certainly would be a stroke of luck if thathappened. But I wouldn’t bet on it.”“Well, we’ll think of another plan,” Duncan said, handing Violet his fork.“I hope so,” Violet said. “Count Olaf doesn’t usually wait very long to put his evilschemes into action.”“Kosbal!” Sunny shrieked.“Does Sunny mean ‘I have a plan’?” Isadora asked. “I’m trying to get the hang of herway of talking.”“I think she means something more like ‘Here comes Carmelita Spats,’” Klaus said,pointing across the cafeteria. Sure enough, Carmelita Spats was walking toward their tablewith a big, smug smile on her face.“Hello, you cakesniffers,” she said. “I have a message for you from Coach Genghis. Iget to be his Special Messenger because I’m the cutest, prettiest, nicest girl in the wholeschool.”“Oh, stop bragging, Carmelita,” Duncan said.“You’re just jealous,” Carmelita replied, “because Coach Genghis likes me best insteadof you.”“I couldn’t care less about Coach Genghis,” Duncan said. “Just deliver your messageand leave us alone.”“The message is this,” Carmelita said. “The three Baudelaire orphans are to report tothe front lawn tonight, immediately after dinner.”“After dinner?” Violet said. “But after dinner we’re supposed to go to Nero’s violinrecital.”“That’s the message,” Carmelita insisted. “He said that if you don’t show up you’ll bein big trouble, so if I were you, Violet-”“You aren’t Violet, thank goodness,” Duncan interrupted. It is not very polite tointerrupt a person, of course, but sometimes if the person is very unpleasant you canhardly stop yourself. “Thank you for your message. Good-bye.”“It is traditional,” Carmelita said, “to give a Special Messenger a tip after she hasdelivered a message.”“If you don’t leave us alone,” Isadora said, “you’re going to get a headful of scrambledeggs as a tip.”“You’re just a jealous cakesniffer,” Carmelita sneered, but she left the Baudelaires andQuagmires alone.“Don’t worry,” Duncan said when he was sure Carmelita couldn’t hear him. “It’s stillmorning. We have all day to figure out what to do. Here, have another spoonful of eggs,Violet.”“No, thank you,” Violet said. “I don’t have much of an appetite.” And it was true. Noneof the Baudelaires had an appetite. Scrambled eggs had never been the siblings’ favoritedish, particularly Sunny, who much preferred food she could really sink her teeth into, buttheir lack of appetite had nothing to do with the eggs. It had to do with Coach Genghis, ofcourse, and the message that he had sent to them. It had to do with the thought of meetinghim on the lawn, after dinner, all alone. Duncan was right tha t it was still morning, andthat they had all day to figure out what to do. But it did not feel like morning. Violet,Klaus, and Sunny sat in the cafeteria, not taking another bite of their breakfast, and it feltlike the sun had already set. It felt like night had already fallen, and that Coach Genghiswas already waiting for them. It was only morning, and the Baudelaire orphans alreadyfelt like they were in his clutches.The Baudelaire orphans’ schoolday was particularly austere, a word which here meansthat Mr. Remora’s stories were particularly boring, Mrs. Bass’s obsession with the metricsystem was particularly irritating, and Nero’s administrative demands were particularlydifficult, but Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not really notice. Violet sat at her schooldesk,and anybody who did not know Violet would have thought that she was paying closeattention, because her hair was tied up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes. But Violet’sthoughts were far, far away from the dull tales Mr. Remora was telling. She had tied herhair up, of course, to help focus her keen inventing brain on the problem that was facingthe Baudelaires, and she didn’t want to waste an ounce of her attention on the rambling,banana-eating man in the front of the room.Mrs. Bass had brought in a box of pencils for her class and was having them figure outif one of them was any longer or shorter than the rest. And if Mrs. Bass weren’t so busypacing around the room shouting “Measure!” she might have looked at Klaus and thoughtthat perhaps he shared her obsession with measurement, because his eyes were sharplyfocused as if he were concentrating. But Klaus was spending the morning on autopilot, aword which here means “measuring pencils without really thinking about them.” As heplaced pencil after pencil next to his ruler, he was thinking of books he had read that mightbe helpful for their situation.And if Vice Principal Nero had stopped practicing his violin and looked in on his infantsecretary, he would have guessed that Sunny was working very hard, mailing letters hehad dictated to various candy companies complaining about their candy quality. But eventhough Sunny was typing, stapling, and stamping as quickly as she could, her mind wasnot on secretarial supplies but on the appointment she and her siblings had with CoachGenghis that evening, and what they could do about it.The Quagmires were curiously absent from lunch, so the Baudelaires were really forcedto eat with their hands this time, but as they picked up handfuls of spaghetti and tried toeat them as neatly as possible the three children were thinking so hard that they barelyspoke. They knew, almost without discussing the matter, that none of them had been ableto guess Coach Genghis’s plan, and that they hadn’t figured out a way to avoid theirappointment with him on the lawn, an appointment that drew closer and closer with everyhandful of lunch. The Baudelaires passed the afternoon in more or less the same way,ignoring Mr. Remora’s stories, Mrs. Bass’s pencils, and the diminishing supply of staples,and even during gym period-one of Carmelita’s bratty friends informed them that Genghiswould start teaching the next day, but in the meantime they were to run around as usualthe three children raced around the lawn in utter silence, devoting all of their brainpowerto thinking about their situation.The Baudelaires had been so very quiet, and thinking so very hard, that when theQuagmires sat down across from them at dinnertime and said in unison, “We’ve solvedyour problem,” it was more of a startle than a relief.“Goodness,” Violet said. “You startled me.”“I thought you’d be relieved,” Duncan said. “Didn’t you hear us? We said we’ve solvedyour problem.”“We’re startled and relieved,” Klaus said. “What do you mean, you’ve solved ourproblem? My sisters and I have been thinking about it all day, and we’ve gotten nowhere.We don’t know what Coach Genghis is up to, although we’re sure he’s up to something.And we don’t know how we can avoid meeting him after dinner, although we’re sure thathe’ll do something terrible if we do.”“At first I thought he might simply be planning to kidnap us,” Violet said, “but hewouldn’t have to be in disguise to do that.”“And at first I thought we should call Mr. Poe after all,” Klaus said, “and tell himwhat’s going on. But if Count Olaf can fool an advanced computer, he’ll surely be able tofool an average banker.”“Toricia!” Sunny said in agreement.“Duncan and I have been thinking about it all day, too,” Isadora said. “I filled up fiveand a half pages of my notebook writing down possible ideas, and Duncan filled up three.”“I write smaller,” Duncan explained, handing his fork to Violet so she could take herturn at the meat loaf they were having for dinner.“Right before lunch, we compared notes,” Isadora continued, “and the two of us had thesame idea. So we sneaked away and put our plan into action.”“That’s why we weren’t at lunch,” Duncan explained. “You’ll notice that there arepuddles of beverages on our tray instead of glasses.”“Well, you can share our glasses,” Klaus said, handing his to Isadora, “just like you’reletting us share your silverware. But what is your plan? What did you put into action?”Duncan and Isadora looked at one another, smiled, and leaned in close to theBaudelaires so they could be sure no one would overhear.“We propped open the back door of the auditorium,” Duncan said. He and Isadorasmiled triumphantly and leaned back in their chairs. The Baudelaires did not feeltriumphant. They felt confused. They did not want to insult their friends, who had brokenthe rules and sacrificed their drinking glasses just to help them, but they were unable tosee how propping open the back door of the auditorium was a solution to the trouble inwhich they found themselves.“I’m sorry,” Violet said after a pause. “I don’t understand how propping open the backdoor of the auditorium solves our problem.”“Don’t you see?” Isadora asked. “We’re going to sit in the back of the auditoriumtonight, and as soon as Nero begins his concert, we will tiptoe out and sneak over to thefront lawn. That way we can keep an eye on you and Coach Genghis. If anything fishyhappens, we will run back to the concert and alert Vice Principal Nero.”“It’s the perfect plan, don’t you think?” Duncan asked. “I’m rather proud of my sisterand me, if I do say so myself.”The Baudelaire children looked at one another doubtfully. They didn’t want todisappoint their friends or criticize the plan that the Quagmire triplets had cooked up,particularly since the Baudelaires hadn’t cooked up any plan themselves. But Count Olafwas so evil and so clever that the three siblings couldn’t help but think that propping adoor open and sneaking out to spy on him was not much of a defense against his treachery.“We appreciate you trying to solve our problem,” Klaus said gently, “but Count Olaf isan extremely treacherous person. He always has something up his sleeve. I wouldn’t wantyou to get into any danger on our behalf.”“Don’t talk nonsense,” Isadora said firmly, taking a sip from Violet’s glass. “You’re theones in danger, and it’s up to us to help you. And we’re not frightened of Olaf. I’mconfident this plan is a good one.”The Baudelaires looked at one another again. It was very brave of the Quagmire tripletsnot to be frightened of Olaf and to be so confident about their plan. But the three siblingscould not help but wonder if the Quagmires should be so brave. Olaf was such a wretchedman that it seemed wise to be frightened of him, and he had defeated so many of theBaudelaires’ plans that it seemed a little foolish to be so confident about this one. But thechildren were so appreciative of their friends’ efforts that they said nothing more about thematter. In the years to come, the Baudelaire orphans would regret this, this time when theysaid nothing more about the matter, but in the meantime they merely finished their dinnerwith the Quagmires, passing silverware and drinking glasses back and forth and trying totalk about other things. They discussed other projects they might do to improve theOrphans Shack, and what other matters they might research in the library, and what theycould do about Sunny’s problem with the staples, which were running out quite rapidly,and before they knew it dinner was over. The Quagmires hurried off to the violin recital,promising to sneak out as quickly as they could, and the Baudelaires walked out of thecafeteria and over to the front lawn.A Series of Unfortunate Events 5 - TheAustere AcademyThe last few rays of the sunset made the children cast long, long shadows as theywalked, as if the Baudelaires had been stretched across the brown grass by some horriblemechanical device. The children looked down at their shadows, which looked as flimsy assheets of paper, and wished with every step that they could do something else-anythingelse-other than meet Coach Genghis alone on the front lawn. They wished they could justkeep walking, under the arch, past the front lawn, and out into the world, but where couldthey go? The three orphans were all alone in the world. Their parents were dead. Theirbanker was too busy to take good care of them. And their only friends were two moreorphans, who the Baudelaires sincerely hoped had snuck out of the recital by now andwere spying on them as they approached the solitary figure of Coach Genghis, waiting forthem impatiently on the edge of the lawn. The waning light of the sunset-the word“waning” here means “dim, and making everything look extra-creepy”-made the shadowof the coach’s turban look like a huge, deep hole.“You’re late,” Genghis said in his scratchy voice. As the siblings reached him, theycould see that he had both hands behind his back as if he were hiding something. “Yourinstructions were to be here right after dinner, and you’re late.”“We’re very sorry,” Violet said, craning her neck to try and catch a glimpse of what wasbehind his back. “It took us a little longer to eat our dinner without silverware.”“If you were smart,” Genghis said, “you would have borrowed the silverware of one ofyour friends.”“We never thought of that,” Klaus said. When one is forced to tell atrocious lies, oneoften feels a guilty flutter in one’s stomach, and Klaus felt such a flutter now. “Youcertainly are an intelligent man,” he continued.“Not only am I intelligent,” Genghis agreed, “but I’m also very smart. Now, let’s getright to work. Even stupid children like yourselves should remember what I said aboutorphans having excellent bone structure for running. That’s why you are about to doSpecial Orphan Running Exercises, or S.O.R.E. for short.”“Ooladu!” Sunny shrieked.“My sister means that sounds exciting,” Violet said, although “Ooladu!” actually meant“I wish you’d tell us what you’re really up to, Genghis.”“I’m glad you’re so enthusiastic,” Genghis said. “In certain cases, enthusiasm can makeup for a lack of brainpower.” He took his hands from behind his back, and the childrensaw that he was holding a large metal can and a long, prickly brush. The can was open,and an eerie white glow was shining out of the top. “Now, before we begin S.O.R.E., we’llneed a track. This is luminous paint, which means it glows in the dark.”“How interesting,” Klaus said, although he’d known what the word “luminous” meansfor two and a half years.“Well, if you find it so interesting,” Genghis said, his eyes looking as luminous as thepaint, “you can be in charge of the brush. Here.”He thrust the long, prickly brush into Klaus’s hands. “And you little girls can hold thepaint can. I want you to paint a big circle on the grass so you can see where you arerunning when you start your laps. Go on, what are you waiting for?”The Baudelaires looked at one another. What they were waiting for, of course, wasGenghis revealing what he was really up to with the paint, the brush, and the ridiculousSpecial Orphan Running Exercises. But in the meantime, they figured they’d better do asGenghis said. Painting a big, luminous circle on the lawn didn’t seem to be particularlydangerous, so Violet picked up the paint can, and Klaus dipped the brush into the paintand began making a big circle. For the moment, Sunny was something of a fifth wheel, aphrase which means “not in a position to do anything particularly helpful,” but shecrawled alongside her siblings, offering moral support.“Bigger!” Genghis called out in the dark. “Wider!” The Baudelaires followed hisinstructions and made the circle bigger and wider, walking farther away from Genghis andleaving a glowing trail of paint. They looked out into the gloom of the evening, wonderingwhere the Quagmire triplets were hiding, or if indeed they had managed to sneak out ofthe recital at all. But the sun was down now, and the only thing the orphans could see wasthe bright circle of light they were painting on the lawn and the dim figure of Genghis, hiswhite turban looking like a floating skull in the night. “Bigger! Wider! All right, all right,that’s big and wide enough! Finish the circle where I am standing! Hurry up!”“What do you think we’re really doing?” Violet whispered to her brother.“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “I’ve only read three or four books on paint. I know thatpaint can sometimes be poisonous or cause birth defects. But Genghis isn’t making us eatthe circle, and you’re not pregnant, of course, so I can’t imagine.”Sunny wanted to add “Gargaba!” which meant “Maybe the luminous paint is serving assome sort of glowing signal,” but the Baudelaires had come full circle and were too closeto Genghis to do any more talking.“I suppose that will do, orphans,” Genghis said, snatching the brush and the can of paintout of their hands. “Now, take your marks, and when I blow my whistle, begin runningaround the circle you’ve made until I tell you to stop.”“What?” Violet said. As I’m sure you know, there are two types of “What?” in theworld. The first type simply means “Excuse me, I didn’t hear you. Could you please repeatyourself?” The second type is a little trickier. It means something more along the lines of“Excuse me, I did hear you, but I can’t believe that’s really what you meant,” and thissecond type is obviously the type Violet was using at this moment. She was standing rightnext to Genghis, so she’d obviously heard what had come out of the smelly mouth of thismiserable man. But she couldn’t believe that Genghis was simply going to make them runlaps. He was such a sneaky and revolting person that the eldest Baudelaire simply couldnot accept that his scheme was only as evil as the average gym class.“What?” Genghis repeated in a mocking way. He had obviously taken a page out ofNero’s book, a phrase which here means “learned how to repeat things in a mocking way,in order to make fun of children.” “I know you heard me, little orphan girl. You’restanding right next to me. Now take your marks, all of you, and begin running as soon as Iblow my whistle.”“But Sunny is a baby,” Klaus protested. “She can’t really run, at least notprofessionally.”“Then she may crawl as fast as she can,” Genghis replied. “Now-on your marks, get set,go!”Genghis blew his whistle and the Baudelaire orphans began to run, pacing themselvesso they could run together even though they had different-sized legs. They finished onelap, and then another, and then another and another and then five more and then anotherand then seven more and then another and then three more and then two more and thenanother and then another and then six more and then they lost track. Coach Genghis keptblowing his whistle and occasionally shouted tedious and unhelpful things like “Keeprunning!” or “Another lap!” The children looked down at the luminous circle so theycould stay in a circle, and the children looked over at Genghis as he grew fainter and thenclearer as they finished a lap, and the children looked out into the darkness to see if theycould catch a glimpse of the Quagmires.The Baudelaires also looked at one another from time to time, but they didn’t speak, noteven when they were far enough away from Genghis that he could not overhear. Onereason they did not speak was to conserve energy, because although the Baudelaires werein reasonably good shape, they had not run so many laps in their lives, and before too longthey were breathing too hard to really discuss anything. But the other reason they did notspeak was that Violet had already spoken for (hem when she had asked the second type of“What?” Coach Genghis kept blowing his whistle, and the children kept running aroundand around the track, and echoing in each of their minds was this second, trickier type ofquestion. The three siblings had heard Coach Genghis, but they couldn’t believe thatS.O.R.E. was the extent of his evil plan. The Baudelaire orphans kept running around theglowing circle until the first rays of sunrise began to reflect on the jewel in Genghis’sturban, and all they could think was What ? What? What?C H A P T E REight“What?” Isadora asked.“I said, ‘Finally, as the sun rose, Coach Genghis had us stop running laps and let us goto bed,’” Klaus said.“My sister didn’t mean that she didn’t hear you,” Duncan explained. “She meant thatshe heard you, but she didn’t believe that’s really what you meant. And to tell you thetruth, I can scarcely believe it myself, even though I saw it with my own eyes.”“I can’t believe it either,” Violet said, wincing as she took a bite of the salad that themasked people had served for lunch. It was the next afternoon, and all three Baudelaireorphans were doing a great deal of wincing, a word which here means “frowning in pain,alarm, or distress.” When Coach Genghis had called last night’s activities S.O.R.E., he hadmerely used the name as an acronym for Special Orphan Running Exercises, but the threechildren thought that the name S.O.R.E. was even more appropriate than that. After a fullnight of S.O.R.E., they’d been sore all day. Their legs were sore from all their running.When they’d finally entered the Orphans Shack to go to sleep, they had been too tired toput on their noisy shoes, so their toes were sore from the claws of the tiny territorial crabs.And their heads were sore, not only from headaches, which often occur when one doesn’tget enough sleep, but also from trying to figure out what Coach Genghis was up to inmaking them run all those laps. The Baudelaire legs were sore, the Baudelaire toes weresore, the Baudelaire heads were sore, and soon the muscles on the sides of the Baudelairemouths would be sore from wincing all day long.It was lunchtime, and the three children were trying to discuss the previous eveningwith the Quagmire triplets, who weren’t very sore and not nearly as tired. One reason wasthat they had been hiding behind the archway, spying on Genghis and the Baudelaires,instead of running around and around the luminous circle. The other reason was that theQuagmires had done their spying in shifts. After the Baudelaires had run the first few lapsand there was no sign of them stopping, the two triplets had decided to alternate betweenDuncan sleeping and Isadora spying, and Duncan spying and Isadora sleeping. The twosiblings promised each other that they would wake up the sleeping one if the spying onenoticed anything unusual.“I had the last shift,” Duncan explained, “so my sister didn’t see the end of S.O.R.E.But it doesn’t matter. All that happened was that Coach Genghis had you stop running lapsand let you go to bed. I thought that he might insist on getting your fortune before youcould stop running.”“And I thought that the luminous circle would serve as a landing strip,” Isadorasaid, “for a helicopter, piloted by one of his assistants, to swoop down and take you away.The only thing I couldn’t figure out was why you had to run all those laps before thehelicopter showed up.”“But the helicopter didn’t show up,” Klaus said, taking a sip of water and wincing.“Nothing showed up.”“Maybe the pilot got lost,” Isadora said.“Or maybe Coach Genghis became as tired as you did, and forgot to ask for yourfortune,” Duncan said.Violet shook her sore head. “He would never get too tired to get our fortune,” she said.“He’s up to something, that much is for sure, but I just can’t figure out what it is.”“Of course you can’t figure it out,” Duncan said. “You’re exhausted. I’m glad Isadoraand I thought of spying in shifts. We’re going to use all our spare time to investigate. We’llgo through all of our notes, and do some more research in the library. There must besomething that can help us figure it out.”“I’ll do research, too,” Klaus said, yawning. “I’m quite good at it.”“I know you are,” Isadora said, smiling. “But not today, Klaus. We’ll work onuncovering Genghis’s plan, and you three can catch up on your sleep. You’re too tired todo much good in a library or anywhere else.”Violet and Klaus looked at each other’s tired faces, and then down at their babysister,and they saw that the Quagmire triplets were right. Violet had been so tired that she hadtaken only a few notes on Mr. Remora’s painfully dull stories. Klaus had been so tired thathe had incorrectly measured nearly all of Mrs. Bass’s objects. And although Sunny hadnot reported what she had done that morning in Nero’s office, she couldn’t have been avery good administrative assistant, because she had fallen asleep right there in thecafeteria, her little head on her salad, as if it were a soft pillow instead of leaves of lettuce,slices of tomato, gobs of creamy honey-mustard dressing, and crispy croutons, which aresmall toasted pieces of bread that give a salad some added crunch. Violet gently lifted hersister’s head out of the salad and shook a few croutons out of her hair. Sunny winced,made a faint, miserable noise, and went back to sleep in Violet’s lap. “Perhaps you’reright, Isadora,” Violet said. “We’ll stumble through the afternoon somehow and get a goodnight’s sleep tonight. If we’re lucky, Vice Principal Nero will play something quiet attonight’s concert and we can sleep through that as well.”You can see, with that last sentence, just how tired Violet really was, because “ifwe’re lucky” is not a phrase that she, or either of her siblings, used very often. The reason,of course, is quite clear: the Baudelaire orphans were not lucky.Smart, yes. Charming, yes. Able to survive austere situations, yes. But the childrenwere not lucky, and so wouldn’t use the phrase “if we’re lucky” any more than they woulduse the phrase “if we’re stalks of celery,” because neither phrase was appropriate. If theBaudelaire orphans had been stalks of celery, they would not have been small children ingreat distress, and if they had been lucky, Carmelita Spats would not have approachedtheir table at this particular moment and delivered another unfortunate message.“Hello, you cakesniffers,” she said, “although judging from the baby brat you’re morelike saladsniffers. I have another message for you from Coach Genghis. I get to be hisSpecial Messenger because I’m the cutest, prettiest, nicest little girl in the whole school.”“If you were really the nicest person in the whole school,” Isadora said, “you wouldn’tmake fun of a sleeping infant. But never mind, what is the message?”“It’s actually the same one as last time,” Carmelita said, “but I’ll repeat it in case you’retoo stupid to remember. The three Baudelaire orphans are to report to the front lawntonight, immediately after dinner.”“What?” Klaus asked.“Are you deaf as well as cakesniffy?” Carmelita asked. “I said-”“Yes, yes, Klaus heard you,” Isadora said quickly. “He didn’t mean that kind of ‘What?’We have received the message, Carmelita. Now please go away.”“That’s two tips you owe me,” Carmelita said, but she flounced off.“I can’t believe it,” Violet said. “Not more laps! My legs are almost too sore to walk, letalone run.”“Carmelita didn’t say anything about more laps,” Duncan pointed out.“Maybe Coach Genghis is putting his real plan into action tonight. In any case, we’llsneak out of the recital again and keep an eye on you.”“In shifts,” Isadora added, nodding in agreement. “And I bet we’ll have a clear pictureof his plan by then. We have the rest of the day to do research.” Isadora paused, andflipped open her black notebook to the right page. She read,”Don’t worry Baudelaires, don’t feel disgrace -The Quagmire triplets are on the case.”“Thank you,” Klaus said, giving Isadora a tired smile of appreciation. “My sisters and Iare thankful for all your help. And we’re going to put our minds to the problem, eventhough we’re too exhausted to do research. If we’re lucky, all of us working together candefeat Coach Genghis.”There was that phrase again, “if we’re lucky,” coming out of the mouth of a Baudelaire,and once again it felt about as appropriate as “if we’re stalks of celery.” The onlydifference was that the Baudelaire orphans did not wish to be stalks of celery. While it istrue that if they were stalks of celery they would not be orphans because celery is a plantand so cannot really be said to have parents, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not wish to bethe stringy, low-calorie vegetable. Unfortunate things can happen to celery as easily asthey can happen to children. Celery can be sliced into small pieces and dipped into clamdip at fancy parties. It can be coated in peanut butter and served as a snack. It can merelysit in a field and rot away, if the nearby celery farmers are lazy or on vacation. All theseterrible things can happen to celery, and the orphans knew it, so if you were to ask theBaudelaires if they wanted to be stalks of celery they would say of course not. But theywanted to be lucky. The Baudelaires did not necessarily want to be extremely lucky, likesomeone who finds a treasure map or someone who wins a lifetime supply of ice cream ina contest, or like the man-and not, alas, me- who was lucky enough to marry my belovedBeatrice, and live with her in happiness over the course of her short life. But theBaudelaires wanted to be lucky enough. They wanted to be lucky enough to figure outhow to escape Coach Genghis’s clutches, and it seemed that being lucky would be theironly chance. Violet was too tired to invent anything, and Klaus was too tired to readanything, and Sunny, still asleep in Violet’s lap, was too tired to bite anything or anybody,and it seemed that even with the diligence of the Quagmire triplets-the word “diligence”here means “ability to take good notes in dark green and pitch-black notebooks”-theyneeded to be lucky if they wanted to stay alive. The Baudelaires huddled together as if thecafeteria were extremely cold, wincing in soreness and worry. It seemed to the Baudelaireorphans that they wanted to be lucky more than they had in their entire lives.Occasionally , events in one’s life become clearer through the prism of experience, aphrase which simply means that things tend to become clearer as time goes on. Forinstance, when a person is just born, they usually have no idea what curtains are and spenda great deal of their first months wondering why on earth Mommy and Daddy have hunglarge pieces of cloth over each window in the nursery. But as the person grows older, theidea of curtains becomes clearer through the prism of experience. The person will learnthe word “curtains” and notice that they are actually quite handy for keeping a room darkwhen it is time to sleep, and for decorating an otherwise boring window area. Eventually,they will entirely accept the idea of curtains, and may even purchase some curtains of theirown, or Venetian blinds, and it is all due to the prism of experience.Coach Genghis’s S.O.R.E. program, however, was one event that didn’t seem to get anyclearer at all through the Baudelaire orphans’ prism of experience. If anything, it greweven harder and harder to understand, because Violet, Klaus, and Sunny became so utterlyexhausted as the days-and, more particularly, the nights wore on. After the childrenreceived their second message from Carmelita Spats, they spent the rest of the afternoonwondering what Coach Genghis would make them do that evening. The Quagmire tripletswondered along with them, so everyone was surprised-the Baudelaires, who met Genghisout on the front lawn after dinner again, and the Quagmires, who tiptoed out of the recitaland spied on them, in shifts, from behind the archway again-when Genghis began blowinghis whistle and ordered the Baudelaire orphans to begin running. The Baudelaires andQuagmires thought that surely Genghis would do something far more sinister than morelaps.But while a second evening of running laps might have lacked in sinisterity, Violet,Klaus, and Sunny were too exhausted to notice. They could scarcely hear the shrieks ofGenghis’s whistle and his cries of “Keep running!” and “Another lap!” over the sound oftheir own desperate panting for breath. They grew so sweaty that the orphans thought theywould give up the entire Baudelaire fortune for a good long shower. And their legs grewso sore that the children forgot, even with their prism of experience, what it felt like tohave legs that didn’t ache from thigh to toe.Lap after lap the Baudelaires ran, hardly taking their eyes off the circle of luminouspaint that still glowed brightly on the darkening lawn, and staring at this circle wassomehow the worst part of all. As the evening turned to night, the luminous circle was allthe Baudelaires could really see, and it imprinted itself into their eyes so they could see iteven when they were staring desperately into the darkness. If you’ve ever had a flashphotograph taken, and the blob of the flash has stayed in your view for a few momentsafterward, then you are familiar with what was happening to the Baudelaires, except theglowing circle stayed in their minds for so long that it became symbolic. The word“symbolic” here means that the glowing circle felt like it stood for more than merely atrack, and what it stood for was zero. The luminous zero glowed in the Baudelaire minds,and it was symbolic of what they knew of their situation. They knew zero about whatGenghis was up to. They knew zero about why they were running endless laps. And theyhad zero energy to think about it.Finally, the sun began to rise, and Coach Genghis dismissed his orphan track team. TheBaudelaires stumbled blearily to the Orphans Shack, too tired to even see if Duncan andIsadora were sneaking back to their dormitory after their last shift of spying. Once again,the three siblings were too tired to put on their noisy shoes, so their toes were doubly sorewhen they awoke, just two hours later, to begin another groggy day. But-and I shudder totell you this-this was not the last groggy day for the Baudelaire orphans. The dreadfulCarmelita Spats delivered them the usual message at lunch, after they spent the morningdozing through classes and secretarial duties, and the Baudelaires put their heads on thecafeteria table in despair at the idea of another night of running. The Quagmires tried tocomfort them, promising to double their research efforts, but Violet, Klaus, and Sunnywere too tired for conversation, even with their closest friends. Luckily, their closestfriends understood completely and didn’t find the Baudelaires’ silence rude ordiscouraging.It seems impossible to believe that the three Baudelaires managed to survive anotherevening of S.O.R.E., but in times of extreme stress one can often find energy hidden ineven the most exhausted areas of the body. I discovered this myself when I was woken upin the middle of the night and chased sixteen miles by an angry mob armed with torches,swords, and vicious dogs, and the Baudelaire orphans discovered it as they ran laps, notonly for that night but also for six nights following. This made a grand total of nineS.O.R.E. sessions, although “grand” would seem to be the wrong word for endlessevenings of desperate panting, sweaty bodies, and achy legs. For nine nights, theBaudelaire brains were plagued with the symbolic, luminous zero glowing in their mindslike a giant donut of despair.As the Baudelaire orphans suffered, their schoolwork suffered with them. As I’msure you know, a good night’s sleep helps you perform well in school, and so if you are astudent you should always get a good night’s sleep unless you have come to the good partof your book, and then you should stay up all night and let your schoolwork fall by thewayside, a phrase which means “flunk.” In the days that followed, the Baudelaires weremuch more exhausted than somebody who had stayed up all night reading, and theirschoolwork did more than fall by the wayside. It fell off the wayside, a phrase which herehas different meanings for each child. For Violet, it meant that she was so drowsy that shedid not write down a single word of Mr. Remora’s stories. For Klaus, it meant that he wasso weary that he didn’t measure a single one of Mrs. Bass’s objects. And for Sunny, itmeant that she was so exhausted that she didn’t do anything Vice Principal Nero assignedher to do. The Baudelaire orphans believed that doing well in school was extremelyimportant, even if the school happened to be run by a tyrannical idiot, but they weresimply too fatigued from their nightly laps to do their assigned work. Before long, thecircle of luminous paint was not the only zero the Baudelaires saw. Violet saw a zero at thetop of her paper when she was unable to recall any of Mr. Remora’s stories for a test.Klaus saw a zero in Mrs. Bass’s gradebook when he was called on to report the exactlength of a tube sock he was supposed to be measuring and was discovered to be taking anap instead. And Sunny saw a zero when she checked the staple drawer and saw that therewere zero staples inside.“This is getting ridiculous,” Isadora said when Sunny updated her siblings and friendsat the start of another weary lunch. “Look at you, Sunny. It was inappropriate to hire youas an administrative assistant in the first place, and it’s simply absurd to have you crawllaps by night and make your own staples by day.”“Don’t call my sister absurd or ridiculous!” Klaus cried.“I’m not calling her ridiculous!” Isadora said. “I’m calling the situation ridiculous!”“Ridiculous means you want to laugh at it,” said Klaus, who was never too tired todefine words, “and I don’t want you laughing at us.”“I’m not laughing at you,” Isadora said. “I’m trying to help.”Klaus snatched his drinking glass from Isadora’s side of the table. “Well, laughing at usdoesn’t help at all, you cakesniffer.”Isadora snatched her silverware from Klaus’s hands. “Calling me names doesn’t helpeither, Klaus.”“Mumdum!” Sunny shrieked.“Oh, stop it, both of you,” Duncan said. “Isadora, can’t you see that Klaus is just tired?And Klaus, can’t you see that Isadora is just frustrated?”Klaus took his glasses off and returned his drinking glass to Isadora. “I’m too tired tosee anything,” he said. “I’m sorry, Isadora. Being tired makes me crabby. In a few days I’llturn as nasty as Carmelita Spats.”Isadora handed her silverware back to Klaus and patted him on the hand in forgiveness.“You’ll never be as nasty as Carmelita Spats,” she said.“Carmelita Spats?” Violet said, lifting her head from her tray. She had dozed throughIsadora and Klaus’s argument but woken up at the sound of the Special Messenger’sname. “She’s not coming here again to tell us to do laps, is she?”“I’m afraid she is,” Duncan said ruefully, a word which here means “while pointing at arude, violent, and filthy little girl.”“Hello, cakesniffers,” Carmelita Spats said. “Today I have two messages for you, so Ishould really get two tips instead of one.”“Oh, Carmelita,” Klaus said. “You haven’t gotten a tip for the last nine days, and I seeno reason to break that tradition.”“That’s because you’re a stupid orphan,” Carmelita Spats said promptly. “In any case,message number one is the usual: meet Coach Genghis on the front lawn right afterdinner.”Violet gave an exhausted groan. “And what’s the second message?” she asked.“The second message is that you must report to Vice Principal Nero’s office rightaway.”“Vice Principal Nero’s office?” Klaus asked. “Why?”“I’m sorry,” Carmelita Spats said with a nasty smile to indicate that she wasn’t sorryone bit. “I don’t answer questions from nontipping orphan cakesniffers.”Some children at the neighboring table laughed when they heard that and beganbanging their silverware on the table. “Cakesniffing orphans in the Orphans Shack!Cakesniffing orphans in the Orphans Shack!” they chanted as Carmelita Spats giggled andskipped off to finish her lunch. “Cakesniffing orphans in the Orphans Shack! Cakesniffingorphans in the Orphans Shack!” they chanted while the Baudelaires sighed and stood upon their aching legs. “We’d better go to Nero’s,” Violet said. “We’ll see you later, Duncanand Isadora.”“Nonsense,” Duncan said. “We’ll walk you. Carmelita Spats has made me lose myappetite, so we’ll skip lunch and take you to the administrative building. We won’t goinside-otherwise there’ll be no silverware between the five of us but we’ll wait outside andyou can tell us what’s going on.”“I wonder what Nero wants,” Klaus said, yawning.“Maybe he’s discovered that Genghis is really Olaf, all by himself,” Isadora said, andthe Baudelaires smiled back. They didn’t dare hope that this was the reason for theirsummons to Nero’s office, but they appreciated their friends’ hopefulness. The fivechildren handed their scarcely eaten lunches to the cafeteria workers, who blinked at themsilently from behind their metal masks, and walked to the administrative-building. TheQuagmire triplets wished the Baudelaires luck, and Violet, Klaus, and Sunny trudged upthe steps to Nero’s office.“Thank you for taking the time out of your busy orphan schedule to see me,” VicePrincipal Nero said, yanking open his door before they could knock. “Hurry up and comeinside. Every minute I spend talking to you is a minute I could spend practicing the violin,and when you’re a musical genius like me, every minute counts.”The three children walked into the tiny office and began clapping their tired handstogether as Nero raised both his arms in the air.“There are two things I wanted to talk to you about,” he said when the applause wasover. “Do you know what they are?”“No, sir,” Violet replied.“No, sir,” Nero mimicked, although he looked disappointed that the children hadn’tgiven him a longer answer to make fun of. “Well, the first one is that the three of you havemissed nine of my violin concerts, and each of you owes me a bag of candy for each one.Nine bags of candy times three equals twenty nine. In addition, Carmelita Spats has toldme that she has delivered ten messages to you, if you include the two she delivered today,and that you’ve never given her a tip. That’s a disgrace. Now, I think a nice tip is a pair ofearrings with precious stones, so you owe her ten pairs of earrings. What do you have tosay about that?”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another with their sleepy, sleepy eyes. They hadnothing to say about that. They had plenty to think about that – that they’d only missedNero’s concerts because Coach Genghis had forced them to, that nine bags of candy timesthree equals twenty-seven, not twenty-nine, and that tips are always optional and usuallyconsist of money instead of earrings – but Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were too tired to sayanything about it at all. This was another disappointment to Vice Principal Nero, whostood there scratching his pigtails and waiting for one of the children to say something thathe could repeat in his nasty, mocking voice. But after a moment of silence, the viceprincipal went on to the second thing. “The second thing,” he said, going on, “is that youthree have become the worst students Prufrock Preparatory School has ever seen. Violet,Mr. Remora tells me that you have flunked a test. Klaus, Mrs. Bass reports that you canscarcely tell one end of a metric ruler from another. And Sunny, I’ve noticed that youhaven’t made a single staple! Mr. Poe told me you were intelligent and hardworkingchildren, but you’re just a bunch of cakesniffers!”At this, the Baudelaires could keep quiet no longer. “We’re flunking school becausewe’re exhausted!” Violet cried.“And we’re exhausted because we’re running laps every night!” Klaus cried.“Galuka!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “So yell at Coach Genghis, not at us!”Vice Principal Nero gave the children a big smile, delighted that he was able to answerthem in his favorite way. “We’re flunking school because we’re exhausted!” he squealed.“And we’re exhausted because we’re running laps every night! Galuka! I’ve had enoughof your nonsense! Prufrock Preparatory School has promised you an excellent education,and an excellent education you will get, in Sunny’s case, an excellent job as anadministrative assistant! Now, I’ve instructed Mr. Remora and Mrs. Bass to givecomprehensive exams tomorrow large tests on absolutely everything you’ve learned so far.Violet, you’d better remember every detail of Mr. Remora’s stories, and Klaus, you’dbetter remember the length, width, and depths of Mrs. Bass’s objects, or I will expel youfrom school. Also, I’ve found a bunch of papers that need to be stapled tomorrow. Sunny,you will staple all of them, with homemade staples, or I will expel you from your job.First thing tomorrow morning we will have the test and the stapling, and if you don’t getAs and make enough staples, you’ll leave Prufrock Preparatory School . Luckily for you,Coach Genghis has offered to home-school you. That means he’d be your coach, yourteacher, and your guardian, all in one. It’s a very generous offer, and if I were you I’d givehim a tip, too, although I don’t think earrings are appropriate in this case.”“We’re not going to give Count Olaf a tip!” Violet blurted out.Klaus looked at his older sister in horror. “Violet means Coach Genghis,” Klaus saidquickly to Nero.“I do not\” Violet cried. “Klaus, our situation is too desperate to pretend not torecognize him any longer!”“Hifijoo!” Sunny agreed.“I guess you’re right,” Klaus said. “What have we got to lose?”“What have we got to lose?” Nero mocked. “What are you talking about?”“We’re talking about Coach Genghis,” Violet said. “He’s not really named Genghis.He’s not even a real coach. He’s Count Olaf in disguise.”“Nonsense!” Nero said.Klaus wanted to say “Nonsense!” right back at Nero, in Nero’s own repulsive way, buthe bit his exhausted tongue. “It’s true,” he said. “He’s put a turban over his eyebrow andexpensive running shoes over his tattoo, but he’s still Count Olaf.”“He has a turban for religious reasons,” Nero said, “and running shoes because he’s acoach. Look here.” He strode over to the computer and pressed a button. The screen beganto glow in its usual seasick way, and once again showed a picture of Count Olaf. “Yousee? Coach Genghis looks nothing like Count Olaf, and my advanced computer systemproves it.”“Ushilo!” Sunny cried, which meant “That doesn’t prove anything!”“Ushilo!” Nero mocked. “Who am I going to believe, an advanced computer system ortwo children flunking school and a little baby too dumb to make her own staples? Now,stop wasting my time! I will personally oversee tomorrow’s comprehensive exams, whichwill be given in the Orphans Shack! And you’d better do excellent work, or it’s a free ridefrom Coach Genghis! Sayonara, Baudelaires!”“Sayonara” is the Japanese word for goodbye, and I’m sure that each and every one ofthe millions of people who live in Japan would be ashamed to hear their language used bysuch a revolting person. But the Baudelaire orphans had no time to think suchinternational thoughts. They were too busy giving the Quagmire triplets the latest news.“This is awful!” Duncan cried as the five children trudged across the lawn so they couldtalk things over in peace. “There’s no way you can get an A on those exams, particularly ifyou have to run laps tonight!”“This is dreadful!” Isadora cried. “There’s no way you can make all those staples,either! You’ll be homeschooled before you know it!”“Coach Genghis won’t homeschool us,” Violet said, looking out at the front lawn,where the luminous zero was waiting for them. “He’ll do something much, much worse.Don’t you see? That’s why he’s made us run all those laps! He knew we’d be exhausted.He knew we’d flunk our classes, or fail to perform our secretarial duties. He knew we’d beexpelled from Prufrock Prep, and then he could get his hands on us.”Klaus groaned. “We’ve been waiting for his plan to be made clear, and now it is. But itmight be too late.”“It’s not too late,” Violet insisted. “The comprehensive exams aren’t until tomorrowmorning. We must be able to figure out a plan by then.”“Plan!” Sunny agreed.“It’ll have to be a complicated plan,” Duncan said. “We have to get Violet ready for Mr.Remora’s test, and Klaus ready for Mrs. Bass’s test.”“And we have to make staples,” Isadora said. “And the Baudelaires still have to runlaps.”“And we have to stay awake,” Klaus said.The children looked at one another, and then out at the front lawn. The afternoon sunwas shining brightly, but the five youngsters knew that soon it would set behind thetombstone-shaped buildings, and that it would be time for S.O.R.E. They didn’t havemuch time. Violet tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes. Klaus polished hisglasses and set them on his nose. Sunny scraped her teeth together, to make sure they weresharp enough for any task ahead. And the two triplets took their notebooks out of theirsweater pockets. Coach Genghis’s evil plan had become clear through the prism of theBaudelaire and Quagmire experiences, and now they had to use their experience to make aplan of their own.C H A P T E RTenThe three Baudelaire orphans and the two Quagmire triplets sat in the Orphans Shack,which had never looked less unpleasant than it did now. All five children were wearing thenoisy shoes Violet had invented, so the territorial crabs were nowhere to be seen. The salthad dried up the dripping tan fungus into a hard beige crust that was not particularlyattractive but at least did not plop! drops of fungus juice on the youngsters. Because thearrival of Coach Genghis had focused their energies on defeating his treachery, the fiveorphans hadn’t done anything about the green walls with the pink hearts on them, butotherwise the Orphans Shack had become quite a bit less mountainous and quite a bitmore molehilly since the Baudelaires’ arrival. It still had a long way to go to be attractiveand comfortable living quarters, but for thinking of a plan, it would do in a pinch.And the Baudelaire children were certainly in a pinch. If Violet, Klaus, and Sunny spentone more exhausting night running laps, they would flunk their comprehensive exams andsecretarial assignment, and then Coach Genghis would whisk them away from PrufrockPrep, and as they thought of this they could almost feel Genghis’s bony fingers pinchingthe life right out of them. The Quagmire triplets were so worried about their friends thatthey felt pinched as well, even though they were not directly in danger-or so they thought,anyway.“I can’t believe we didn’t figure out Coach Genghis’s plan earlier,” Isadora saidmournfully, paging through her notebook. “Duncan and I did all this research, and we stilldidn’t figure it out.”“Don’t feel badly,” Klaus said. “My sisters and I have had many encounters with Olaf,and it’s always difficult to figure out his scheme.”“We were trying to find out the history of Count Olaf,” Duncan said. “The PrufrockPreparatory library has a pretty good collection of old newspapers, and we thought if wecould find out some of his other schemes, we might figure out this one.”“That’s a good idea,” Klaus said thoughtfully. “I’ve never tried that.”“We figured that Olaf must have been an evil man even before he met you,” Duncancontinued, “so we looked up things in old newspapers. But it was difficult to find toomany articles, because as you know he always uses a different name. But we found aperson matching his description in the Bangkok Gazette, who was arrested for strangling abishop but escaped from prison in just ten minutes.”“That sounds like him, all right,” Klaus said.“And then in the Verona Daily News,” Duncan said, “there was a man who had throwna rich widow off of a cliff. He had a tattoo of an eye on his ankle, but he had eludedauthorities. And then we found a newspaper from your hometown that said-”“I don’t mean to interrupt,” Isadora said, “but we’d better stop thinking about the pastand start thinking about the present. Lunchtime is more than half over, and we desperatelyneed a plan.”“You’re not napping, are you?” Klaus asked Violet, who had been silent for avery long time.“Of course I’m not napping,” Violet replied. “I’m concentrating. I think I can inventsomething to make all those staples Sunny needs. But I can’t figure out how I can inventthe device and study for the test at the same time. Since S.O.R.E. began, I haven’t takengood notes in Mr. Remora’s class, so I won’t be able to remember his stories.”“Well, you don’t have to worry about that,” Duncan said, holding up his dark greennotebook. “I’ve written down every one of Mr. Remora’s stories. Every boring detail isrecorded here in my notebook.”“And I’ve written down how long, wide, and deep all of Mrs. Bass’s objects are,”Isadora said, holding up her own notebook. “You can study from my notebook, Klaus, andViolet can study from Duncan ‘s.”“Thank you,” Klaus said, “but you’re forgetting something. We’re supposed to berunning laps this evening. We don’t have time to read anybody’s notebook.”“Tarcour,” Sunny said, which meant “You’re right, of course. S.O.R.E. always lastsuntil dawn, and the tests are first thing in the morning.”“If only we had one of the world’s great inventors to help us,” Violet said. “I wonderwhat Nikola Tesla would do.”“Or one of the world’s great journalists,” Duncan said. “I wonder what Dorothy Parkerwould do in this situation.”“And I wonder what Hammurabi, the ancient Babylonian, would do to help us,” Klaussaid. “He was one of the world’s greatest researchers.”“Or the great poet Lord Byron,” Isadora said.“Shark,” Sunny said, rubbing her teeth thoughtfully.“Who knows what any of those people or fish would do in our shoes?” Violet said. “It’simpossible to know.”Duncan snapped his fingers, not to signal a waiter or because he was listening to catchymusic but because he had an idea. “In our shoes!” he said. “That’s it!”“What’s it?” Klaus asked. “How will our noisy shoes help?”“No, no,” Duncan said. “Not the noisy shoes. I’m thinking about Coach Genghis’sexpensive running shoes that he said he couldn’t take off because his feet were smelly.”“And I bet they are smelly,” Isadora said. “I’ve noticed he doesn’t bathe much.”“But that’s not why he wears them,” Violet said. “He wears them for a disguise.”“Exactly!” Duncan said. “When you said ‘in your shoes,’ it gave me an idea. I knowyou just meant ‘in our shoes’ as an expression meaning ‘in our situation.’ But what ifsomeone else were actually in your shoes-what if we disguised ourselves as you? Then wecould run laps, and you could study for the comprehensive exams.”“Disguise yourselves as us?” Klaus said. “You two look exactly like each other, but youdon’t look anything like us.”“So what?” Duncan said. “It’ll be dark tonight. When we’ve watched you from thearchway, all we could see were two shadowy figures running-and one crawling.”“That’s true,” Isadora said. “If I took the ribbon from your hair, Violet, and Duncantook Klaus’s glasses, we’d look enough like you that I bet Coach Genghis couldn’t tell.”“And we could switch shoes, so your running on the grass would sound exactly thesame,” Duncan said.“But what about Sunny?” Violet asked. “There’s no way two people could disguisethemselves as three people.”The Quagmire triplets’ faces fell. “If only Quigley were here,” Duncan said. “I justknow he’d be willing to dress up as a baby if it meant helping you.”“What about a bag of flour?” Isadora asked. “Sunny’s only about as big as a bag offlour- nothing personal, Sunny.”“Denada,” Sunny said, shrugging.“We could snitch a bag from the cafeteria,” Isadora said, “and drag it alongside us aswe ran. From a distance, it would probably look enough like Sunny to avoid suspicion.”“Being in each other’s shoes seems like an extremely risky plan,” Violet said. “If itfails, not only are we in trouble but you are as well, and who knows what Coach Genghiswill do to you?”This, as it turns out, was a question that would haunt the Baudelaires for quite sometime, but the Quagmires gave it barely a thought. “Don’t worry about that,” Duncan said.“The important thing is to keep you out of his clutches. It may be a risky plan, but being ineach other’s shoes is the only thing we’ve been able to think of.”“And we don’t have any time to waste thinking of anything else,” Isadora added. “We’dbetter hurry if we want to snitch the bag of flour and not be late for class.”“And we’ll need a string, or something, so we can drag it along and make it look likeSunny crawling,” Duncan said.“And I’ll need to snitch some things, too,” Violet said, “for my staple-makinginvention.”“Nidop,” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “Then let’s getmoving.”The five children walked out of the Orphans Shack, taking off their noisy shoes andputting on their regular shoes so they wouldn’t make a lot of noise as they walkednervously across the lawn to the cafeteria. They were nervous because they were notsupposed to be sneaking into the cafeteria, or snitching things, and they were nervousbecause their plan was indeed a risky one. It is not a pleasant feeling, nervousness, and Iwould not wish for small children to be any more nervous than the Baudelaires and theQuagmires were as they walked toward the cafeteria in their regular shoes. But I must saythat the children weren’t nervous enough. They didn’t need to be more nervous aboutsneaking into the cafeteria, even though it was against the rules, or snitching things, eventhough they didn’t get caught. But they should have been more nervous about their plan,and about what would happen that evening when the sun set on the brown lawn and theluminous circle began to glow. They should have been nervous, now, in their regularshoes, about what would happen when they were in each other’s.C H A P T E RElevenIf you’ve ever dressed up for Halloween or attended a masquerade, you know that thereis a certain thrill to wearing a disguise-a thrill that is half excitement and half danger. Ionce attended one of the famed masked balls hosted by the duchess of Winnipeg, and itwas one of the most exciting and dangerous evenings of my life. I was disguised as abullfighter and slipped into the party while being pursued by the palace guards, who weredisguised as scorpions. The moment I entered the Grand Ballroom, I felt as if LemonySnicket had disappeared. I was wearing clothes I had never worn before-a scarlet capemade of silk and a vest embroidered with gold thread and a skinny black mask-and itmade me feel as if I were a different person. And because I felt like a different person, Idared to approach a woman I had been forbidden to approach for the rest of my life. Shewas alone on the veranda-the word “veranda” is a fancy term for a porch made of polishedgray marble-and costumed as a dragonfly, with a glittering green mask and enormoussilvery wings. As my pursuers scurried around the party, trying to guess which guest wasme, I slipped out to the veranda and gave her the message I’d been trying to give her forfifteen long and lonely years. “Beatrice,” I cried, just as the scorpions spotted me, “CountOlaf is—”A Series of Unfortunate Events 5 - TheAustere AcademyI cannot go on. It makes me weep to think of that evening, and of the dark anddesperate times that followed, and in the meantime I’m sure you are curious whathappened to the Baudelaire orphans and the Quagmire triplets, after dinner that evening atPrufrock Prep.“This is sort of exciting,” Duncan said, putting Klaus’s glasses on his face. “I know thatwe’re doing this for serious reasons, but I’m excited anyway.”Isadora recited, tying Violet’s ribbon in her hair,“It may not be particularly wise,but it’s a thrill to be disguised.”“That’s not a perfect poem, but it will have to do under the circumstances. How do welook?”The Baudelaire orphans took a step back and regarded the Quagmires carefully. It wasjust after dinner, and the children were standing outside the Orphans Shack, hurriedlyputting their risky plan into action. They had managed to sneak into the cafeteria and steala Sunny-sized bag of flour from the kitchen while the metal-masked cafeteria workers’backs were turned. Violet had also snitched a fork, a few teaspoons of creamed spinach,and a small potato, all of which she needed for her invention. Now they had just a fewmoments before the Bau-delaires-or, in this case, the Quagmires in disguise-had to showup for S.O.R.E. Duncan and Isadora handed over their notebooks so the Baudelaires couldstudy for their comprehensive exams, and switched shoes so the Quagmires’ laps wouldsound exactly like the Baudelaires’. Now, with only seconds to spare, the Baudelaireslooked over the Quagmires’ disguise and realized instantly just how risky this plan was.Isadora and Duncan Quagmire simply did not look very much like Violet and KlausBaudelaire. Duncan ‘s eyes were of a different color from Klaus’s, and Isadora haddifferent hair from Violet’s, even if it was tied up in a similar way. Being triplets, theQuagmires were the exact same height, but Violet was taller than Klaus because she wasolder, and there was no time to make small stilts for Isadora to mimic this heightdifference. But it wasn’t really these small physical details that made the disguise sounconvincing. It was the simple fact that the Baudelaires and the Quagmires were differentpeople, and a hair ribbon, a pair of glasses, and some shoes couldn’t turn them into oneanother any more than a woman disguised as a dragonfly can actually take wing andescape the disaster awaiting her.“I know we don’t look much like you,” Duncan admitted after the Baudelaires had beenquiet for some time. “But remember, it’s quite dark on the front lawn. The only light iscoming from the luminous circle. We’ll make sure to keep our heads down when we’rerunning, so our faces won’t give us away. We won’t speak a word to Coach Genghis, soour voices won’t give us away. And we have your hair ribbon, glasses, and shoes, so ouraccessories won’t give us away, either.”“We don’t have to go through with this plan,” Violet said quietly. “We appreciate yourhelp, but we don’t have to try and fool Genghis. My siblings and I could just run awayright now, tonight. We’ve gotten to be pretty good runners, so we’d have a good head starton Coach Genghis.”“We could call Mr. Poe from a pay phone somewhere,” Klaus said.“Zubu,” Sunny said, which meant “Or attend a different school, under different names.”“Those plans don’t have a chance of working,” Isadora said. “From what you’ve told usabout Mr. Poe, he’s never very helpful. And Count Olaf seems to find you wherever yougo, so a different school wouldn’t help, either.”“This is our only chance,” Duncan agreed. “If you pass the exams without arousingGenghis’s suspicion, you will be out of danger, and then we can focus our efforts onexposing the coach for who he really is.”“I suppose you’re right,” Violet said. “I just don’t like the idea of your putting yourlives in such danger, just to help us.”“What are friends for?” Isadora said. “We’re not going to attend some silly recital whileyou run laps to your doom. You three were the first people at Prufrock Prep who weren’tmean to us just for being orphans. None of us have any family, so we’ve got to sticktogether.”“At least let us go with you to the front lawn,” Klaus said. “We’ll spy on you from thearchway, and make sure you’re fooling Coach Genghis.”Duncan shook his head. “You don’t have time to spy on us,” he said. “You have tomake staples out of those metal rods and study for two comprehensive exams.”“Oh!” Isadora said suddenly. “How will we drag this bag of flour along the track? Weneed a string or something.”“We could just kick it around the circle,” Duncan said.“No, no, no,” Klaus said. “If Coach Genghis thinks you’re kicking your baby sister,he’ll know something is up.”“I know!” Violet said. She leaned forward and put her hand on Duncan ‘s chest,running her fingers along his thick wool sweater until she found what she was looking fora loose thread. Carefully, she pulled, unraveling the sweater slightly until she had a goodlong piece of yarn. Then she snapped it off and tied one end around the bag of flour. Theother end she handed to Duncan . “This should do it,” she said. “Sorry about yoursweater.”“I’m sure you can invent a sewing machine,” he said, “when we’re all out of danger.Well, we’d better go, Isadora. Coach Genghis will be waiting. Good luck with studying.”“Good luck with running laps,” Klaus said.The Baudelaires took a long look at their friends. They were reminded of the last timethey saw their parents, waving good-bye to them as they left for the beach. They had notknown, of course, that it would be the last moment they would spend with their motherand father, and again and again, each of the Baudelaires had gone back to that day in theirlives, wishing that they had said something more than a casual good-bye. Violet, Klaus,and Sunny looked at the two triplets and hoped that this was not such a time, a time whenpeople they cared for would disappear from their lives forever. But what if it were?“If we never see-” Violet stopped, swallowed, and began again. “If something goeswrong-”Duncan took Violet’s hands and looked right at her. Violet saw, behind Klaus’s glasses,the serious look in Duncan ‘s wide eyes. “Nothing will go wrong,” he said firmly, thoughof course he was wrong at that very moment. “Nothing will go wrong at all. We’ll see youin the morning, Baudelaires.”Isadora nodded solemnly and followed her brother and the bag of flour away from theOrphans Shack. The Baudelaire orphans watched them walk toward the front lawn untilthe triplets were merely two specks, dragging another speck along with them.“You know,” Klaus said, as they watched them, “from a distance, in the dim light, theylook quite a bit like us.”“Abax,” Sunny agreed.“I hope so,” Violet murmured. “I hope so. But in the meantime, we’d better stopthinking about them and get started on our half of the plan. Let’s put our noisy shoes onand go into the shack.”“I can’t imagine how you’re going to make staples,” Klaus said, “with only a fork, afew teaspoons of creamed spinach, and a small potato. That sounds more like theingredients for a side dish than for a staple-making device. I hope your inventing skillshaven’t been dulled by a lack of sleep.”“I don’t think they have,” Violet said. “It’s amazing how much energy you can haveonce you have a plan. Besides, my plan doesn’t only involve the things I snitched. Itinvolves one of the Orphan Shack crabs and our noisy shoes. Now, when we all have ourshoes on, please follow my instructions.”The two younger Baudelaires were quite puzzled at this, but they had learned long agothat when it came to inventions, Violet could be trusted absolutely. In the recent past, shehad invented a grappling hook, a lockpick, and a signaling device, and now, come hell orhigh water-an expression which here means “using a fork, a few teaspoons of creamedspinach, a small potato, a live crab, and noisy shoes”-she was going to invent a staplemaking device.The three siblings put on their shoes and, following Violet’s instructions, entered theshack. As usual, the tiny crabs were lounging around, taking advantage of their time alonein the shack when they wouldn’t be frightened by loud noises. On most occasions, theBaudelaires would stomp wildly on the floor when they entered the shack, and the crabswould scurry underneath the bales of hay and into other hiding places in the room. Thistime, however, Violet instructed her siblings to step on the floor in carefully arrangedpatterns, so as to herd one of the grumpiest and biggest-clawed crabs into a corner of theshack. While the other crabs scattered, this crab was trapped in a corner, afraid of thenoisy shoes but with nowhere to hide from them.“Good work!” Violet cried. “Keep him in the corner, Sunny, while I ready the potato.”“What is the potato for?” Klaus asked.“As we know,” Violet explained as Sunny tapped her little feet this way and that tokeep the crab in the corner, “these crabs love to get their claws on our toes. I specificallysnitched a potato that was toe-shaped. You see how it’s curved in a sort of oval way, andthe little bumpy part here looks like a toenail?”“You’re right,” Klaus said. “The resemblance is remarkable. But what does it have todo with staples?”“Well, the metal rods that Nero gave us are very long, and need to be cut cleanly intosmall, staple-sized pieces. While Sunny keeps the crab in the corner, I’m going to wavethe potato at him. He-or she, come to think of it, I don’t know how to tell a boy crab froma girl crab-”“It’s a boy,” Klaus said. “Trust me.”“Well, he’ll think it’s a toe,” Violet continued, “and snap at it with his claws. At thatinstant, I’ll yank the potato away and put a rod in its place. If I do it carefully enough, thecrab should do a perfect job of slicing it up.”“And then what?” Klaus asked.“First things first,” Violet replied firmly. “O.K. Sunny, keep tapping those noisy shoes.I’m ready with the potato and rod number one.”“What can I do?” Klaus asked.“You can start studying for the comprehensive exam, of course,” Violet said. “I couldn’tpossibly read all of Duncan ‘s notes in just one night. While Sunny and I make the staples,you need to read Duncan ‘s and Isadora’s notebooks, memorize the measurements fromMrs. Bass’s class, and teach me all of Mr. Remora’s stories.”“Roger,” Klaus said. As you probably know, the middle Baudelaire was not referring toanybody named Roger. He was saying a man’s name to indicate that he understood whatViolet had said and would act accordingly, and over the course of the next two hours,that’s exactly what he did. While Sunny used her noisy shoes to keep the crab in thecorner and Violet used the potato as a toe and the crab’s claws as clean cutters, Klaus usedthe Quagmire notebooks to study for the comprehensive exams, and everything workedthe way it should. Sunny tapped her shoes so noisily that the crab remained trapped. Violetwas so quick with the potato and metal rods that soon they were snipped into staple-sizedpieces. And Klaus-although he had to squint because Duncan was using his glasses-readIsadora’s measuring notes so carefully that before long he had memorized the length,width, and depth of just about everything.“Violet, ask me the measurements of the navy blue scarf,” Klaus said, turning thenotebook over so he couldn’t peek.Violet yanked the potato away just in time, and the crab snipped off another bit of themetal rods. “What are the measurements of the navy blue scarf?” she asked.“Two decimeters long,” Klaus recited, “nine centimeters wide, and four millimetersthick. It’s boring, but it’s correct. Sunny, ask me the measurements of the bar of deodorantsoap.”The crab saw an opportunity to leave the corner, but Sunny was too quick for it.“Soap?” Sunny quizzed Klaus, tapping her tiny noisy shoes until the crab retreated.“Eight centimeters by eight centimeters by eight centimeters,” Klaus said promptly.“That one’s easy. You’re doing great, you two. I bet that crab’s going to be almost as tiredas we are.”“No,” Violet said, “he’s done. Let him go, Sunny. We have all the staple-sized pieceswe need. I’m glad that part of the staple-making process is over. It’s very nerve-wrackingto tease a crab.”“What’s next?” Klaus said, as the crab scurried away from the most frighteningmoments of his life.“Next you teach me Mr. Remora’s stories,” Violet said, “while Sunny and I bend theselittle bits of metal into the proper shape.”“Shablo,” Sunny said, which meant something like “How are we going to do that?”“Watch,” Violet said, and Sunny watched. While Klaus closed Isadora’s blacknotebook and began paging through Duncan ‘s dark green one, Violet took the glob ofcreamed spinach and mixed it with a few pieces of stray hay and dust until it was a sticky,gluey mess. Then she placed this mess on the spiky end of the fork, and stuck it to one ofthe bales of hay so the handle end of the fork hung over the side. She blew on thecreamed- spinach- stray- hay- and- dust mixture until it hardened. “I always thought thatPrufrock Prep’s creamed spinach was awfully sticky,” Violet explained, “and then Irealized it could be used as glue. And now, we have a perfect method of making those tinystrips into staples. See, if I lay a strip across the handle of the fork, a tiny part of the striphangs off each of the sides. Those are the parts that will go inside the paper when it’s astaple. If I take off my noisy shoes”-and here Violet paused to take off her noisyshoes-“and use the metal ends to tap on the strips, they’ll bend around the handle of thefork and turn into staples. See?”“Gyba!” Sunny shrieked. She meant “You’re a genius! But what can I do to help?”“You can keep your noisy shoes on your feet,” Violet replied, “and keep the crabs awayfrom us. And Klaus, you start summarizing stories.”“Roger,” Sunny said.“Roger,” Klaus said, and once again, neither of them were referring to Roger. Theymeant, once again, that they understood what Violet had said, and would act accordingly,and all three Baudelaires acted accordingly for the rest of the night. Violet tapped away atthe rnetal strips, and Klaus read out loud from Duncan ‘s notebook, and Sunny stompedher noisy shoes. Soon, the Baudelaires had a pile of homemade staples on the floor, thedetails of Mr. Remora’s stories in their brains, and not a single crab bothering them in theshack, and even with the threat of Coach Genghis hovering over them, the eveningactually began to feel rather cozy. It reminded the Baudelaires of evenings they had spentwhen their parents were alive, in one of the living rooms in the Baudelaire mansion. Violetwould often be tinkering away at some invention, while Klaus would often be reading andsharing the information he was learning, and Sunny would often be making loud noises.Of course, Violet was never tinkering frantically at an invention that would save theirlives, Klaus was never reading something so boring, and Sunny was never making loudnoises to scare crabs, but nevertheless as the night wore on, the Baudelaires felt almost athome in the Orphans Shack. And when the sky began to lighten with the first rays ofdawn, the Baudelaires began to feel a certain thrill that was quite different from the thrillof being in disguise. It was a thrill that I have never felt in my life, and it was a thrill thatthe Baudelaires did not feel very often. But as the morning sun began to shine, theBaudelaire orphans felt the thrill of thinking your plan might work after all, and thatperhaps they would eventually be as safe and happy as the evenings they remembered.that this was so. But when you got out of your bed, you might discover that it hadfloated out to sea, and now you would be in terrible trouble all because of the incorrectassumption that you’d made. You can see that it is better not to make too manyassumptions, particularly in the morning.The morning of the comprehensive exams, however, the Baudelaire orphans were sotired, not only from staying up all night studying and making staples but also from nineconsecutive nights of running laps, that they made plenty of assumptions, and every lastone of them turned out to be incorrect.“Well, that’s the last staple,” Violet said, stretching her tired muscles. “I think we cansafely assume that Sunny won’t lose her job.”“And you seem to know every detail of Mr. Remora’s stories as well as I know all ofMrs. Bass’s measurements,” Klaus said, rubbing his tired eyes, “so I think we can safelyassume that we won’t be expelled.”“Nilikoh,” Sunny said, yawning her tired mouth. She meant something like “And wehaven’t seen either of the Quagmire triplets, so I think we can safely assume that their partof the plan went well.”“That’s true,” Klaus said. “I assume if they’d been caught we would have heard bynow.”“I’d make the same assumption,” Violet said.“I’d make the same assumption,” came a nasty, mimicking voice, and the children werestartled to see Vice Principal Nero standing behind them holding a huge stack of papers. Inaddition to the assumptions they had made out loud, the Baudelaires had made theassumption that they were alone, and they were surprised to find not only Vice PrincipalNero but also Mr. Remora and Mrs. Bass waiting in the doorway of the Orphans Shack. “Ihope you’ve been studying all evening,” Nero said, “because I told your teachers to makethese exams extrachallenging, and the pieces of paper that the baby has to staple are verythick. Well, let’s get started. Mr. Remora and Mrs. Bass will take turns asking youquestions until one of you gets an answer wrong, and then you flunk. Sunny will sit in theback and staple these papers into booklets of five papers each, and if your homemadestaples don’t work perfectly, then you flunk. Well, a musical genius like myself doesn’thave all day to oversee exams. I’ve missed too much practice time as it is. Let’s begin!”Nero threw the papers into a big heap on one of the bales of hay, and the stapler rightafter it. Sunny crawled over as quickly as she could and began inserting the staples intothe stapler, and Klaus stood up, still clutching the Quagmire notebooks. Violet put hernoisy shoes back on her feet, and Mr. Remora swallowed a bite of banana and asked hisfirst question.“In my story about the donkey,” he said, “how many miles did the donkey run?”“Six,” Violet said promptly.“Six, ” Nero mimicked. “That can’t be correct, can it, Mr. Remora?”“Um, yes, actually,” Mr. Remora said, taking another bite of banana.“How wide,” Mrs. Bass said to Klaus, “was the book with the yellow cover?”“Nineteen centimeters,” Klaus said immediately.“Nineteen centimeters,” Nero mocked. “That’s wrong, isn’t it, Mrs. Bass?”“No,” Mrs. Bass admitted. “That’s the right answer.”“Well, try another question, Mr. Remora,” Nero said.“In my story about the mushroom,” Mr. Remora asked Violet, “what was the name ofthe chef?”“Maurice,” Violet answered.“Maurice, ” Nero mimicked.“Correct,” Mr. Remora said.“How long was chicken breast number seven?” Mrs. Bass asked.“Fourteen centimeters and five millimeters,” Klaus said.“Fourteen centimeters and five millimeters, Nero mimicked.“That’s right,” Mrs. Bass said. “You’re actually both very good students, even if you’vebeen sleeping through class lately.”“Stop all this chitchat and flunk them,” Nero said. “I’ve never gotten to expel anystudents, and I’m really looking forward to it.”“In my story about the dump truck,” Mr. Remora said, as Sunny began to staple the pileof thick papers into booklets, “what color were the rocks that it carried?”“Gray and brown.”“Gray and brown.”“Correct.”“How deep was my mother’s casserole dish?”“Six centimeters.”“Six centimeters.”“Correct.”“In my story about the weasel, what was its favorite color?”The comprehensive exams went on and on, and if I were to repeat all of the tiresomeand pointless questions that Mr. Remora and Mrs. Bass asked, you might become so boredthat you might go to sleep right here, using this book as a pillow instead of as anentertaining and instructive tale to benefit young minds. Indeed, the exams were so boringthat the Baudelaire orphans might normally have dozed through the test themselves. Butthey dared not doze. One wrong answer or unstapled piece of paper, and Nero would expelthem from Prufrock Preparatory School and send them into the waiting clutches of CoachGenghis, so the three children worked as hard as they could. Violet tried to remember eachdetail Klaus had taught her, Klaus tried to remember every measurement he had taughthimself, and Sunny stapled like mad, a phrase which here means “quickly and accurately.”Finally, Mr. Remora stopped in the middle of his eighth banana and turned to VicePrincipal Nero.“Nero,” he said, “there’s no use continuing these exams. Violet is a very fine student,and has obviously studied very hard.”Mrs. Bass nodded her head in agreement. “In all my years of teaching, I’ve neverencountered a more metric-wise boy than Klaus, here. And it looks like Sunny is a finesecretary as well. Look at these booklets! They’re gorgeous.”“Pilso!” Sunny shrieked.“My sister means ‘Thank you very much,’“ Violet said, although Sunny really meantsomething more like ”My stapling hand is sore.“ ”Does this mean we get to stay atPrufrock Prep?”“Oh, let them stay, Nero,” Mr. Remora said. “Why don’t you expel that CarmelitaSpats? She never studies, and she’s an awful person besides.”“Oh yes,” Mrs. Bass said. “Let’s give her an extra-challenging examination.”“I can’t flunk Carmelita Spats,” Nero said impatiently. “She’s Coach Genghis’s SpecialMessenger.”“Who?” Mr. Remora asked.“You know,” Mrs. Bass explained, “Coach Genghis, the new gym teacher.”“Oh yes,” Mr. Remora said. “I’ve heard about him, but never met him. What is helike?”“He’s the finest gym teacher the world has ever seen,” Vice Principal Nero said,shaking his four pigtails in amazement. “But you don’t have to take my word for it. Youcan see for yourself. Here he comes now.”Nero pointed one of his hairy hands out of the Orphans Shack, and the Baudelaireorphans saw with horror that the vice principal was speaking the truth. Whistling anirritating tune to himself, Coach Genghis was walking straight toward them, and thechildren could see at once how incorrect one of their assumptions had been. It was not theassumption that Sunny would not lose her job, although that assumption, too, would turnout to be incorrect. And it was not the assumption that Violet and Klaus would not beexpelled, although that, too, was a wrong one. It was the assumption about the Quagmiretriplets and their part of the plan going well. As Coach Genghis walked closer and closer,the Baudelaires saw that he was holding Violet’s hair ribbon in one of his scraggly handsand Klaus’s glasses in the other, and with every step of his expensive running shoes, thecoach raised a small white cloud, which the children realized must be flour from thesnitched sack. But more than the ribbon, or the glasses, or the small clouds of flour wasthe look in Genghis’s eyes. As Coach Genghis reached the Orphans Shack, his eyes wereshining bright with triumph, as if he had finally won a game that he had been playing for along, long time, and the Baudelaire orphans realized that the assumption about theQuagmire triplets had been very, very wrong indeed.“We don’t mean these them!” Klaus said, taking the items from Genghis’s scragglyhands. “We mean them them!”“I’m afraid I don’t understand all those thems,” Coach Genghis said, shrugging at theadults. “The orphans ran laps last night as part of my S.O.R.E. program, but they had todash off in the morning to take their exams. In their hurry, Violet dropped her ribbon andKlaus dropped his glasses. But the baby-”“You know very well that’s not what happened,” Violet interrupted. “Where are theQuagmire triplets? What have you done with our friends?”“What have you done with our friends?” Vice Principal Nero said in his mocking tone.“Stop talking nonsense, orphans.”“I’m afraid it’s not nonsense,” Genghis said, shaking his turbaned head and continuinghis story. “As I was saying before the little girl interrupted me, the baby didn’t dash offwith the other orphans. She just sat there like a sack of flour. So I walked over to her andgave her a kick to get her moving.”“Excellent idea!” Nero said. “What a wonderful story this is! And then whathappened?”“Well, at first it seemed like I’d kicked a big hole in the baby,” Genghis said, his eyesshining, “which seemed lucky, because Sunny was a terrible athlete and it would havebeen a blessing to put her out of her misery.”Nero clapped his hands. “I know just what you mean, Genghis,” he said. “She’s aterrible secretary as well.”“But she did all that stapling,” Mr. Remora protested.“Shut up and let the coach finish his story,” Nero said.“But when I looked down,” Genghis continued, “I saw that I hadn’t kicked a hole in ababy. I’d kicked a hole in a bag of flour! I’d been tricked!”“That’s terrible!” Nero cried.“So I ran after Violet and Klaus,” Genghis continued, “and I found that they weren’tViolet and Klaus after all, but those two other orphans- the twins.”“They’re not twins!” Violet cried. “They’re triplets!”“They’re triplets!” Nero mocked. “Don’t be an idiot. Triplets are when four babies areborn at the same time, and there are only two Quagmires.”“And these two Quagmires were pretending to be the Baudelaires, in order to give theBaudelaires extra time to study.”“Extra time to study?” Nero said, grinning in delight. “Hee hee hee! Why, that’scheating!”“That’s not cheating!” Mrs. Bass said.“Skipping gym class to study is cheating,” Nero insisted.“No, it’s just good time management,” Mr. Remora argued. “There’s nothing wrongwith athletics, but they shouldn’t get in the way of your schoolwork.”“Look, I’m the vice principal,” the vice principal said. “I say the Baudelaires werecheating, and therefore-hooray!-I can expel them. You two are merely teachers, so if youdisagree with me, I can expel you, too.”Mr. Remora looked at Mrs. Bass, and they both shrugged. “You’re the boss, Nero,” Mr.Remora said finally, taking another banana out of his pocket. “If you say they’re expelled,they’re expelled.”“Well, I say they’re expelled,” Nero said. “And Sunny loses her job, too.”“Rantaw!” Sunny shrieked, which meant something along the lines of “I never wantedto work as a secretary, anyway!”“We don’t care about being expelled,” Violet said. “We want to know what happened toour friends.”“Well, the Quagmires had to be punished for their part in the cheating,” Coach Genghissaid, “so I brought them over to the cafeteria and put those two workers in charge of them.They’ll be whisking eggs all day long.”“Very sensible,” Nero agreed.“That’s all they’re doing?” Klaus said suspiciously. “Whisking eggs?”“That’s what I said,” Genghis said and leaned so close to the Baudelaires that all theycould see were his shiny eyes and the crooked curve of his wicked mouth. “Those twoQuagmires will whisk and whisk until they are simply whisked away.”“You’re a liar,” Violet said.“Insulting your coach,” Nero said, shaking his pigtailed head. “Now you’re doublyexpelled.”“What’s this?” said a voice from the doorway. “Doubly expelled?”The voice stopped to have a long, wet cough, so the Baudelaires knew without lookingthat it was Mr. Poe. He was standing at the Orphans Shack holding a large paper sack andlooking busy and confused. “What are all of you doing here?” he said. “This doesn’t looklike a proper place to have a conversation. It’s just an old shack.”“What are you doing here?” Nero asked. “We don’t allow strangers to wander aroundPrufrock Preparatory School .”“Poe’s the name,” Mr. Poe said, shaking Nero’s hand. “You must be Nero. We’ve talkedon the phone. I received your telegram about the twenty-eight bags of candy and the tenpairs of earrings with precious stones. My associates at Mulctuary Money Managementthought I’d better deliver them in person, so here I am. But what’s this about expelled?”“These orphans you foisted on me,” Nero said, using a nasty word for “gave,” “haveproven to be terrible cheaters, and I’m forced to expel them.”“Cheaters?” Mr. Poe said, frowning at the three siblings. “Violet, Klaus, Sunny, I’mvery disappointed in you. You promised me that you’d be excellent students.”“Well, actually, only Violet and Klaus were students,” Nero said. “Sunny was anadministrative assistant, but she was terrible at it as well.”Mr. Poe’s eyes widened in surprise as he paused to cough into his white handkerchief.“An administrative assistant?” he repeated. “Why, Sunny’s only a baby. She should be inpreschool, not an office environment.”“Well, it doesn’t matter now,” Nero said. “They’re all expelled. Give me that candy.”Klaus looked down at his hands, which were still clutching the Quagmire notebooks.He was afraid that the notebooks might be the only sign of the Quagmires he would eversee again. “We don’t have any time to argue about candy!” he cried. “Count Olaf has donesomething terrible to our friends!”“Count Olaf?” Mr. Poe said, handing Nero the paper sack. “Don’t tell me he’s foundyou here!”“No, of course not,” Nero said. “My advanced computer system has kept him away, ofcourse. But the children have this bizarre notion that Coach Genghis is actually Olaf indisguise.”“Count Olaf,” Genghis said slowly. “Yes, I’ve heard of him. He’s supposed to be thebest actor in the whole world. I’m the best gym teacher in the whole world, so we couldn’tpossibly be the same person.”Mr. Poe looked Coach Genghis up and down, then shook his hand. “A pleasure to meetyou,” he said, and then turned to the Baudelaires. “Children, I’m surprised at you. Evenwithout an advanced computer system, you should be able to tell that this man isn’t CountOlaf. Olaf has only one eyebrow, and this man is wearing a turban. And Olaf has a tattooof an eye on his ankle, and this man is wearing expensive running shoes. They are quitehandsome, by the way.”“Oh, thank you,” Coach Genghis said. “Unfortunately, thanks to these children, theyhave flour all over them, but I’m sure it’ll wash off.”“If he removes his turban and his shoes,” Violet said impatiently, “you will be able tosee that he’s Olaf.”“We’ve been through this before,” Nero said. “He can’t take off his running shoesbecause he’s been exercising and his feet smell.”“And I can’t take off my turban for religious reasons,” Genghis added.“You’re not wearing a turban for religious reasons!” Klaus said in disgust, and Sunnyshrieked something in agreement. “You’re wearing it as a disguise! Please, Mr. Poe, makehim take it off!”“Now, Klaus,” Mr. Poe said sternly. “You have to learn to be accepting of othercultures. I’m sorry, Coach Genghis. The children aren’t usually prejudiced.”“That’s quite all right,” Genghis said. “I’m used to religious persecution.”“However,” Mr. Poe continued, after a brief coughing spell, “I would ask you toremove your running shoes, if only to set the Baudelaires’ minds at ease. I think we can allstand a little smelliness if it’s in the cause of criminal justice.”“Smelly feet,” Mrs. Bass said, wrinkling her nose. “Ew, gross.”“I’m afraid I cannot take off my running shoes,” Coach Genghis said, taking a steptoward the door. “I need them.”“Need them?” Nero asked. “For what?”Coach Genghis took a long, long look at the three Baudelaires and smiled a terrible,toothy grin. “For running, of course,” he said, and ran out the door.The orphans were startled for a moment, not only because he had started running sosuddenly but also because it seemed like he had given up so easily. After his long,elaborate plan-disguising himself as a gym teacher, forcing the Baudelaires to run laps,getting them expelled-he was suddenly racing across the lawn without even glancing backat the children he’d been chasing for such a long time. The Baudelaires stepped out of theOrphans Shack, and Coach Genghis turned back to sneer at them.“Don’t think I’ve given up on you, orphans!” he called to them. “But in the meantime, Ihave two little prisoners with a very nice fortune of their own!”He began to run again, but not before pointing a bony finger across the lawn.The Baudelaires gasped. At the far end of Prufrock Prep, they saw a long, black carwith dark smoke billowing out of its exhaust pipes. But the children were not gasping atair pollution. The two cafeteria workers were walking toward the car, but they had takenoff their metal masks at last, and the three youngsters could see that they were the twopowder-faced women who were comrades of Count Olaf’s. But this was not what thechildren were gasping at either, although it was a surprising and distressing turn of events.What they were gasping at was what each of the women was dragging toward the car.Each powder-faced woman was dragging one of the Quagmire triplets, who werestruggling desperately to get away.“Put them in the back seat!” Genghis called. “I’ll drive! Hurry!”“What in the world is Coach Genghis doing with those children?” Mr. Poe asked,frowning.The Baudelaires did not even turn to Mr. Poe to try and explain. After all their S.O.R.E.training sessions, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny found that their leg muscles could respondinstantly if they wanted to run. And the Baudelaire orphans had never wanted to run morethan they did now.“After them!” Violet cried, and the children went after them. Violet ran, her hair flyingwildly behind her. Klaus ran, not even bothering to drop the Quagmire notebooks. AndSunny crawled as fast as her legs and hands could carry her. Mr. Poe gave a startled coughand began running after them, and Nero, Mr. Remora, and Mrs. Bass began running afterMr. Poe. If you had been hiding behind the archway, spying on what was going on, youwould have seen what looked like a strange race on the front lawn, with Coach Genghisrunning in front, the Baudelaire orphans right behind, and assorted adults huffing andpuffing behind the children. But if you continued watching, you would have seen anexciting development in the race, a phrase which here means that the Baudelaires weregaining on Genghis. The coach had much longer legs than the Baudelaires, of course, buthe had spent the last ten nights standing around blowing a whistle. The children had spentthose nights running hundreds of laps around the luminous circle, and so their tiny, stronglegs-and, in Sunny’s case, arms-were overcoming Genghis’s height advantage.I hate to pause at such a suspenseful part of the story, but I feel I must intrude and giveyou one last warning as we reach the end of this miserable tale. You were probablythinking, as you read that the children were catching up to their enemy, that perhaps thiswas the time in the lives of the Baudelaire orphans when this terrible villain would finallybe caught, and that perhaps the children would find some kind guardians and that Violet,Klaus, and Sunny would spend the rest of their lives in relative happiness, possiblycreating the printing business that they had discussed with the Quagmires. And you arefree to believe that this is how the story turns out, if you want. The last few events in thischapter of the Baudelaire orphans’ lives are incredibly unfortunate, and quite terrifying,and so if you would prefer to ignore them entirely you should put this book down now andthink of a gentle ending to this horrible story. I have made a solemn promise to write theBaudelaire history exactly as it occurred, but you have made no such promise- at least asfar as I know-and you do not need to endure the wretched ending of this story, and this isyour very last chance to save yourself from the woeful knowledge of what happened next.Violet was the first to reach Coach Genghis, and she stretched her arm out as far as shecould, grabbing part of his turban. Turbans, you probably know, consist of just one pieceof cloth, wrapped very tightly and in a complicated way around someone’s head. ButGenghis had cheated, not knowing the proper way to tie a turban, because he was wearingit as a disguise and not for religious reasons. He had merely wrapped it around his headthe way you might wrap a towel around yourself when getting out of the shower, so whenViolet grabbed the turban, it unraveled immediately. She had been hoping that grabbinghis turban would stop the coach from running, but all it did was leave her with a longpiece of cloth in her hands. Coach Genghis kept running, his one eyebrow glistened withsweat over his shiny eyes.“Look!” Mr. Poe said, who was far behind the Baudelaires but close enough to see.“Genghis has only one eyebrow, like Count Olaf!”Sunny was the next Baudelaire to reach Genghis, and because she was crawling on theground, she was in a perfect position to attack his shoes. Using all four of her sharp teeth,she bit one pair of his shoelaces, and then the other. The knots came undone immediately,leaving tiny, bitten pieces of shoelace on the brown lawn. Sunny had been hoping thatuntying his shoes would make the coach trip, but Genghis merely stepped out of his shoesand kept running. Like many disgusting people, Coach Genghis was not wearing socks, sowith each step his eye tattoo glistening with sweat on his left ankle.“Look!” Mr. Poe said, who was still too far to help but close enough to see. “Genghishas an eye tattoo, like Count Olaf! In fact, I think he is Count Olaf!”“Of course he is!” Violet cried, holding up the unraveled turban.“Merd!” Sunny shrieked, holding up a tiny piece of shoelace. She meant something like“That’s what we’ve been trying to tell you.”Klaus, however, did not say anything. He was putting all of his energy toward running,but he was not running toward the man we can finally call by his true name, Count Olaf.Klaus was running toward the car. The powder-faced women were just shoving theQuagmires into the back seat, and he knew this might be his only chance to rescue them.“Klaus! Klaus!” Isadora cried as he reached the car. Klaus dropped the notebooks to theground and grabbed his friend’s hand. “Help us!”“Hang on!” Klaus cried and began to drag Isadora back out of the car. Without a word,one of the powder-faced women leaned forward and bit Klaus’s hand, forcing him to let goof the triplet. The other powder-faced woman leaned across Isadora’s lap and beganpulling the car door closed.“No!” Klaus cried and grabbed the door handle. Back and forth, Klaus and Olaf’sassociate tugged on the door, forcing it halfway open and halfway shut.“Klaus!” Duncan cried, from behind Isadora. “Listen to me, Klaus! If anything goeswrong-”“Nothing will go wrong,” Klaus promised, pulling on the car door as hard as he could.“You’ll be out of here in a second!”“If anything goes wrong,” Duncan said again, “there’s something you should know.When we were researching the history of Count Olaf, we found out something dreadful!”“We can talk about this later,” Klaus said, struggling with the door.“Look in the notebooks!” Isadora cried. “The-” The first powder-faced woman put herhand over Isadora’s mouth so she couldn’t speak. Isadora turned her head roughly andslipped from the woman’s grasp. “The-” The powdery hand covered her mouth again.“Hang on!” Klaus called desperately. “Hang on!”“Look in the notebooks! V.F.D.” Duncan screamed, but the other woman’s powderyhand covered his mouth before he could continue.“What?” Klaus said.Duncan shook his head vigorously and freed himself from the woman’s hand for justone moment. “V.F.D.” he managed to scream again, and that was the last Klaus heard.Count Olaf, who had been running slower without his shoes, had reached the car, and witha deafening roar, he grabbed Klaus’s hand and pried it loose from the car door. As the doorslammed shut, Olaf kicked Klaus in the stomach, sending him falling to the ground andlanding with a rough thump! near the Quagmire notebooks he had dropped. The villaintowered over Klaus and gave him a sickening smile, then leaned down, picked up thenotebooks, and tucked them under his arm.“No!” Klaus screamed, but Count Olaf merely smiled, stepped into the front seat, andbegan driving away just as Violet and Sunny reached their brother. Clutching his stomach,Klaus stood up and tried to follow his sisters, who were trying to chase the long, black car.But Olaf was driving over the speed limit and it was simply impossible, and after a fewyards the Baudelaires had to stop. The Quagmire triplets climbed over the powder-facedwomen and began to pound on the rear window of the car. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny couldnot hear what the Quagmires were screaming through the glass; they only saw theirdesperate and terrified faces. But then the powdery hands of Olaf’s assistants grabbedthem and pulled them back from the window. The faces of the Quagmire triplets faded tonothing, and the Baudelaires saw nothing more as the car pulled away.“We have to go after them!” Violet screamed, her face streaked with tears. She turnedaround to face Nero and Mr. Poe, who were pausing for breath on the edge of the lawn.“We have to go after them!”“We’ll call the police,” Mr. Poe gasped, wiping his sweaty forehead with hishandkerchief. “They have an advanced computer system, too. They’ll catch him. Where’sthe nearest phone, Nero?”“You can’t use my phone, Poe!” Nero said. “You brought three terrible cheaters here,and now, thanks to you, my greatest gym teacher is gone and took two students with him!The Baudelaires are triple-expelled!”“Now see here, Nero,” Poe said. “Be reasonable.”The Baudelaires sunk to the brown lawn, weeping with frustration and exhaustion.They paid no attention to the argument between Vice Principal Nero and Mr. Poe, becausethey knew, from the prism of their experience, that by the time the adults had decided on acourse of action, Count Olaf would be long gone. This time, Olaf had not merely escapedbut escaped with friends of theirs, and the Baudelaires wept as they thought they mightnever see the triplets again. They were wrong about this, but they had no way of knowingthey were wrong, and just imagining what Count Olaf might do to their dear friends madethem only weep harder. Violet wept, thinking of how kind the Quagmires had been to herand her siblings upon the Baudelaires’ arrival at this dreadful academy. Klaus wept,thinking of how the Quagmires had risked their lives to help him and his sisters escapefrom Olaf’s clutches. And Sunny wept, thinking of the research the Quagmires had done,and the information they hadn’t had time to share with her and her siblings.The Baudelaire orphans hung on to one another, and wept and wept while the adultsargued endlessly behind them. Finally-as, I’m sorry to say, Count Olaf forced theQuagmires into puppy costumes so he could sneak them onto the airplane without anyonenoticing-the Baudelaires cried themselves out and just sat on the lawn together in wearysilence. They looked up at the smooth gray stone of the tombstone buildings and at thearch with “PRUFROCK PREPARATORY SCHOOL ” in enormous black letters and themotto “Memento Mori” printed beneath. They looked out at the edge of the lawn, whereOlaf had snatched the Quagmire notebooks. And they took long, long looks at one another.The Baudelaires remembered, as I’m sure you remembered, that in times of extreme stressone can find energy hidden in even the most exhausted areas of the body, and Violet,Klaus, and Sunny felt that energy surge through them now.“What did Duncan shout to you?” Violet asked. “What did he shout to you from the car,about what was in the notebooks?”“V.F.D.” Klaus said, “but I don’t know what it means.”“Ceju,” Sunny said, which meant “We have to find out.”The older Baudelaires looked at their sister and nodded. Sunny was right. The childrenhad to find out the secret of V.F.D. and the dreadful thing the Quagmires had discovered.Perhaps it could help them rescue the two triplets. Perhaps it could bring Count Olaf tojustice. And perhaps it could somehow make clear the mysterious and deadly way thattheir lives had become so unfortunate.A morning breeze blew through the campus of Prufrock Preparatory School , rustlingthe brown lawn and knocking against the stone arch with the motto printed on it.“Memento Mori”-“Remember you will die.” The Baudelaire orphans looked up at themotto and vowed that before they died, they would solve this dark and complicatedmystery that cast a shadow over their lives.LEMONY SNICKET first received his education from public schools and privatetutors, and then vice versa. He has been hailed as a brilliant scholar, discredited as abrilliant fraud, and mistaken for a much taller man on several occasions. Mr. Snicket’sresearching skills are currently and devoutly concentrated on the plight of the Baudelaireorphans, published serially by HarperCollinsTo My Kind Editor,Please excuse this ridiculously fancy stationery. I am writing to you from 667 DarkAvenue , and this is the only paper available in the neighborhood. My investigation of theBaudelaire orphans’ stay in this wealthy and woeful place is finally complete - I only praythat the manuscript will reach you. Not next Tuesday, but the Tuesday after that, purchasea first-class, oneway ticket on the second-to-last train out of the city. Instead of boardingthe train, wait until it departs and climb down to the tracks to retrieve the completesummary of my investigation, entitled THE ERSATZ ELEVATOR, as well as one ofJerome’s neckties, a small photograph of Veblen Hall, a bottle of parsley soda, and thedoorman’s coat, so that Mr. Helquist can properly illustrate this terrible chapter in theBaudelaires’ lives.Remember, you are my last hope that the tales of the Baudelaire orphans can finally betold to the general public.With all due respectLemony SnicketA Series of Unfortunate Events 6 - TheErsatz ElevatorASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the SixthThe Ersatz ElevatorLemony SnicketC H A P T E ROneThe book you are holding in your two hands right now-assuming that you are, infact, holding this book, and that you have only two hands—is one of two books in theworld that will show you the difference between the word “nervous” and the word“anxious.” The other book, of course, is the dictionary, and if I were you I would readthat book instead.Like this book, the dictionary shows you that the word “nervous” means “worriedabout something”—you might feel nervous, for instance, if you were served pruneice cream for dessert, because you would be worried that it would taste awful—whereas the word “anxious” means “troubled by disturbing suspense,” which youmight feel if you were served a live alligator for dessert, because you would betroubled by the disturbing suspense about whether you would eat your dessert or itwould eat you. But unlike this book, the dictionary also discusses words that are farmore pleasant to contemplate. The word “bubble” is in the dictionary, for instance, asis the word “peacock,” the word “vacation,” and the words “the” “author’s”“execution” “has” “been” “canceled,” which make up a sentence that is alwayspleasant to hear. So if you were to read the dictionary, rather than this book, youcould skip the parts about “nervous” and “anxious” and read about things thatwouldn’t keep you up all night long, weeping and tearing out your hair.But this book is not the dictionary, and if you were to skip the parts about“nervous” and “anxious” in this book, you would be skipping the most pleasantsections in the entire story. Nowhere in this book will you find the words “bubble,”“peacock,” “vacation,” or, unfortunately for me, anything about an execution beingcanceled. Instead, I’m sorry to say, you will find the words “grief, ”despair,“ and”woeful“ as well as the phrases ”dark passageway,“ ”Count Olaf in disguise,“ and”the Baudelaire orphans were trapped,” plus an assortment of miserable words andphrases that I cannot bring myself to write down. In short, reading a dictionary mightmake you feel nervous, because you would worry about finding it very boring, butreading this book will make you feel anxious, because you will be troubled by thedisturbing suspense in which the Baudelaire orphans find themselves, and if I wereyou I would drop this book right out of your two or more hands and curl up with adictionary instead, because all the miserable words I must use to describe theseunfortunate events are about to reach your eyes.“I imagine you must be nervous,” Mr. Poe said. Mr. Poe was a banker who hadbeen put in charge of the Baudelaire orphans following the death of their parents in ahorrible fire. I am sorry to say that Mr. Poe had not done a very good job so far, andthat the Baudelaires had learned that the only thing they could rely on with Mr. Poewas that he always had a cough. Sure enough, as soon as he finished his sentence, hetook out his white handkerchief and coughed into it.The flash of white cotton was practically the only thing the Baudelaire orphanscould see. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny were standing with Mr. Poe in front of anenormous apartment building on Dark Avenue , a street in one of the fanciest districtsin the city. Although Dark Avenue was just a few blocks away from where theBaudelaire mansion had been, the three children had never been in this neighborhoodbefore, and they had assumed that the “dark” in Dark Avenue was simply a name andnothing more, the way a street named George Washington Boulevard does notnecessarily indicate that George Washington lives there or the way Sixth Street hasnot been divided into six equal parts. But this afternoon the Baudelaires realized thatDark Avenue was more than a name. It was an appropriate description. Rather thanstreet-lamps, placed at regular intervals along the sidewalk were enormous trees thelikes of which the children had never seen before—and which they could scarcely seenow. High above a thick and prickly trunk, the branches of the trees drooped downlike laundry hung out to dry, spreading their wide, flat leaves out in every direction,like a low, leafy ceiling over the Baudelaires’ heads. This ceiling blocked out all thelight from above, so even though it was the middle of the afternoon, the street lookedas dark as evening—if a bit greener. It was hardly a good way to make three orphansfeel welcome as they approached their new home.“You have nothing to be nervous about,” Mr. Poe said, putting his handkerchiefback in his pocket. “I realize some of your previous guardians have caused a littletrouble, but I think Mr. and Mrs. Squalor will provide you with a proper home.”“We’re not nervous,” Violet said. “We’re too anxious to be nervous.”“‘Anxious’ and ‘nervous’ mean the same thing,” Mr. Poe said. “And what do youhave to be anxious about, anyway?”“Count Olaf, of course,” Violet replied. Violet was fourteen, which made her theeldest Baudelaire child and the one who was most likely to speak up to adults. Shewas a superb inventor, and I am certain that if she had not been so anxious, she wouldhave tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes while she thought of aninvention that could brighten up her surroundings.“Count Olaf?” Mr. Poe said dismissively. “Don’t worry about him. He’ll neverfind you here.”The three children looked at one another and sighed. Count Olaf had been the firstguardian Mr. Poe had found for the orphans, and he was a person as shady as DarkAvenue . He had one long eyebrow, a tattoo of an eye on his ankle, and two filthyhands that he hoped to use to snatch away the Baudelaire fortune that the orphanswould inherit as soon as Violet came of age. The children had convinced Mr. Poe toremove them from Olaf’s care, but since then the count had pursued them with adogged determination, a phrase which here means “everywhere they went, thinkingup treacherous schemes and wearing disguises to try to fool the three children.”“It’s hard not to worry about Olaf,” Klaus said, taking off his glasses to see if itwas easier to look around the gloom without them, “because he has our compatriotsin his clutches.” Although Klaus, the middle Baudelaire, was only twelve, he hadread so many books that he frequently used words like “compatriots,” which is afancy word for “friends.” Klaus was referring to the Quagmire triplets, whom theBaudelaires had met while they were attending boarding school. Duncan Quagmirewas a reporter, and was always writing down useful information in his notebook.Isadora Quagmire was a poet, and used her notebook to write poetry. The third triplet,Quigley, had died in a fire before the Baudelaire orphans had the opportunity to meethim, but the Baudelaires were certain that he would have been as good a friend as hissiblings. Like the Baudelaires, the Quagmires were orphans, having lost their parentsin the same fire that claimed their brother’s life, and also like the Baudelaires , theQuagmires had been left an enormous fortune, in the form of the famous Quagmiresapphires, which were very rare and valuable jewels. But unlike the Baudelaires, theyhad not been able to escape Count Olaf’s clutches. Just when the Quagmires hadlearned some terrible secret about Olaf, he had snatched them away, and since thenthe Baudelaires had been so worried that they had scarcely slept a wink. Wheneverthey closed their eyes, they saw only the long, black car that had whisked theQuagmires away, and they heard only the sound of their friends shrieking onefragment of the dreadful secret they had learned. “V.F.D.!” Duncan had screamed,just before the car raced away, and the Baudelaires tossed and turned, and worried fortheir friends, and wondered what in the world V.F.D. could stand for.“You don’t have to worry about the Quagmires, either,” Mr. Poe said confidently.“At least, not for much longer. I don’t know if you happened to read the MulctuaryMoney Management newsletter, but I have some very good news about your friends.”“Gavu?” Sunny asked. Sunny was the youngest Baudelaire orphan, and thesmallest, too. She was scarcely larger than a salami. This size was usual for her age,but she had four teeth that were larger and sharper than those of any other baby Ihave ever seen. Despite the maturity of her mouth, however, Sunny usually talked ina way most people found difficult to understand. By “Gavu,” for instance, she meantsomething along the lines of “The Quagmires have been found and rescued?” andViolet was quick to translate so Mr. Poe would understand. “Better than that,” Mr.Poe said. “I have been promoted. I am now the bank’s Vice President in Charge ofOrphan Affairs. That means that I am in charge not only of your situation, but of theQuagmire situation as well. I promise you that I will concentrate a great deal of myenergy on finding the Quagmires and returning them to safety, or my name isn’t”—here Mr. Poe interrupted himself to cough once more into his handkerchief, and theBaudelaires waited patiently until he finished—“Poe. Now, as soon as I drop you offhere I am taking a three-week helicopter ride to a mountain peak where theQuagmires may have been spotted. It will be very difficult to reach me during thattime, as the helicopter has no phone, but I will call you as soon as I get back withyour young pals. Now, can you see the number on this building? It’s hard for me totell if we’re at the right place.”“I think it says 667,” Klaus said, squinting in the dim green light.“Then we’re here,” Mr. Poe said. “Mr. and Mrs. Squalor live in the penthouseapartment of 667 Dark Avenue . I think the door is here.”“No, it’s over here,” said a high, scratchy voice out of the darkness. TheBaudelaires jumped a little in surprise, and turned to see a man wearing a hat with awide brim and a coat that was much too big for him. The coat sleeves hung over hishands, covering them completely, and the brim of his hat covered most of his face.He was so difficult to see that it was no wonder that the children hadn’t spotted himearlier. “Most of our visitors find it hard to spot the door,” the man said. “That’s whythey hired a doorman.”“Well, I’m glad they did,” Mr. Poe said. “My name is Poe, and I have anappointment with Mr. and Mrs. Squalor to drop off their new children.”“Oh, yes,” the doorman said. “They told me you were coming. Come on in.”The doorman opened the door of the building and showed them inside to a roomthat was as dark as the street. Instead of lights, there were only a few candles placedon the floor, and the children could scarcely tell whether it was a large room or asmall room they were standing in.“My, it’s dark in here,” Mr. Poe said. “Why don’t you ask your employers to bringin a good strong halogen lamp?”“We can’t,” the doorman replied. “Right now, dark is in.”“In what?” Violet asked.“Just ‘in’,” the doorman explained. “Around here, people decide whethersomething is in, which means it’s stylish and appealing, or out, which means it’s not.And it changes all the time. Why, just a couple of weeks ago, dark was out, and lightwas in, and you should have seen this neighborhood. You had to wear sunglasses allthe time or you’d hurt your eyes.”“Dark is in, huh?” Mr. Poe said. “Wait until I tell my wife. In the meantime, couldyou show us where the elevator is? Mr. and Mrs. Squalor live in the penthouseapartment, and I don’t want to walk all the way to the top floor.”“Well, I’m afraid you’ll have to,” the doorman said. “There’s a pair of elevatordoors right over there, but they won’t be of any use to you.”“Is the elevator out of order?” Violet asked. “I’m very good with mechanicaldevices, and I’d be happy to take a look at it.”“That’s a very kind and unusual offer,” the doorman said. “But the elevator isn’tout of order. It’s just out. The neighborhood decided that elevators were out, so theyhad the elevator shut down. Stairs are in, though, so there’s still a way to get to thepenthouse. Let me show you.”The doorman led the way across the lobby, and the Baudelaire orphans peered upat a very long, curved staircase made of wood, with a metal banister that curvedalongside. Every few steps, they could see, somebody had placed more candles, sothe staircase looked like nothing more than curves of flickering lights, growingdimmer as the staircase went farther and farther up, until they could see nothing atall.“I’ve never seen anything like this,” Klaus said.“It looks more like a cave than a staircase,” Violet said.“Pinse!” Sunny said, which meant something like “Or outer space!”“It looks like a long walk to me,” Mr. Poe said, frowning. He turned to thedoorman. “How many floors up does this staircase go?”The doorman’s shoulders shrugged underneath his oversized coat. “I can’tremember,” he said. “I think it’s forty-eight, but it might be eighty-four.”“I didn’t know buildings could be that high,” Klaus said.“Well, whether it’s forty-eight or eighty-four,” Mr. Poe said, “I don’t have time towalk you children all the way up. I’ll miss my helicopter. You’ll have to go up byyourselves, and tell Mr. and Mrs. Squalor that I send my regards.”“We have to walk up by ourselves?” Violet said.“Just be glad you don’t have any of your things with you,” Mr. Poe said. “Mrs.Squalor said there was no reason to bring any of your old clothing, and I think it’sbecause she wanted to save you the effort of dragging suitcases up all those stairs.”“You’re not going to come with us?” Klaus asked.“I simply don’t have the time to accompany you,” Mr. Poe said, “and that is that.”The Baudelaires looked at one another. The children knew, as I’m sure you know,that there is usually no reason to be afraid of the dark, but even if you are notparticularly afraid of something, you might not want to get near it, and the orphanswere a bit nervous about climbing all the way up to the penthouse without an adultwalking beside them.“If you’re afraid of the dark,” Mr. Poe said, “I suppose I could delay my search forthe Quagmires, and take you to your new guardians.”“No, no,” Klaus said quickly. “We’re not afraid of the dark, and finding theQuagmires is much more important.”“Obog,” Sunny said doubtfully.“Just try to crawl as long as you can,” Violet said to her sister, “and then Klaus andI will take turns carrying you. Good-bye, Mr. Poe.”“Good-bye, children,” Mr. Poe said. “If there’s any problem, remember you canalways contact me or any of my associates at Mulctuary Money Management—atleast, as soon as I get off the helicopter.”“There’s one good thing about this staircase,” the doorman joked, starting to walkMr. Poe back to the front door. “It’s all uphill from here.”The Baudelaire orphans listened to the doorman’s chuckles as he disappeared intothe darkness, and they walked up the first few steps. As I’m sure you know, theexpression “It’s all uphill from here” has nothing to do with walking up stairs—itmerely means that things will get better in the future. The children had understoodthe joke, but they were too anxious to laugh. They were anxious about Count Olaf,who might find them any minute. They were anxious about the Quagmire triplets,whom they might never see again. And now, as they began to walk up the candlelitstairway, they were anxious about their new guardians. They tried to imagine whatsort of people would live on such a dark street, in such a dark building, and at the topof either forty-eight or eighty-four flights of very dark stairs. They found it difficultto believe that things would get better in the future when they lived in such gloomyand poorly lit surroundings. Even though a long, upward climb awaited them, as theBaudelaire orphans started walking into the darkness, they were too anxious tobelieve it was all uphill from here.C H A P T E RTwoIn order to get a better sense of exactly how the Baudelaire orphans felt as theybegan the grueling journey up the stairs to Mr. and Mrs. Squalor’s penthouseapartment, you might find it useful to close your eyes as you read this chapter,because the light was so dim from the small candles on the ground that it felt as iftheir eyes were closed even when they were looking as hard as they could. At eachcurve in the staircase, there was a door that led to the apartment on each floor, and apair of sliding elevator doors. From behind the sliding doors, the youngsters of courseheard nothing, as the elevator had been shut down, but behind the doors to theapartments the children could hear the noises of people who lived in the building.When they reached the seventh floor, they heard two men laugh as somebody told ajoke. When they reached the twelfth floor, they heard the splashing of water assomebody took a bath. When they reached the nineteenth floor, they heard a womansay “Let them eat cake” in a voice with a strange accent.“I wonder what people will hear when they walk by the penthouse apartment,”Violet wondered out loud, “when we are living there.”“I hope they hear me turning pages,” Klaus said. “Maybe Mr. and Mrs. Squalorwill have some interesting books to read.”“Or maybe people will hear me using a wrench,” Violet said. “I hope the Squalorshave some tools they’d let me use for my inventing.”“Crife!” Sunny said, crawling carefully past one of the candles on the ground.Violet looked down at her and smiled. “I don’t think that will be a problem,Sunny,” she said. “You usually find something or other to bite. Be sure to speak upwhen you want us to start carrying you.”“I wish somebody could carry me,” Klaus said, clutching the banister for support.“I’m getting tired.”“Me too,” Violet admitted. “You would think, after Count Olaf made us run allthose laps when he was disguised as a gym teacher, that these stairs wouldn’t tire usout, but that’s not the case. What floor are we on, anyway?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “The doors aren’t numbered, and I’ve lost count.”“Well, we won’t miss the penthouse,” Violet said. “It’s on the top floor, so we’lljust keep walking until the stairs stop.”“I wish you could invent a device that could take us up the stairs,” Klaus said.Violet smiled, although her siblings couldn’t see it in the darkness. “That devicewas invented a long time ago,” she said. “It’s called an elevator. But elevators are out,remember?”Klaus smiled too. “And tired feet are in,” he said.“Remember that time,” Violet said, “when our parents attended the SixteenthAnnual Run-a-Thon, and their feet were so tired when they got home that Dadprepared dinner while sitting on the kitchen floor, instead of standing?”“Of course I remember,” Klaus said. “We had only salad, because they couldn’tstand up and reach the stove.”“It would have been a perfect meal for Aunt Josephine,” Violet said, rememberingone of the Baudelaires’ previous guardians. “She never wanted to use the stove,because she thought it might explode.”“Pomres,” Sunny said sadly. She meant something along the lines of “As it turnedout, the stove was the least of Aunt Josephine’s problems.”“That’s true,” Violet said quietly, as the children heard someone sneeze frombehind a door.“I wonder what the Squalors will be like,” Klaus said.“Well, they must be wealthy to live on Dark Avenue ,” Violet said.“Akrofil,” Sunny said, which meant “And they’re not afraid of heights, that’s forsure.”Klaus smiled and looked down at his sister. “You sound tired, Sunny,” he said.“Violet and I can take turns carrying you. We’ll switch every three floors.”Violet nodded in agreement with Klaus’s plan, and then said “Yes” out loudbecause she realized that her nod was invisible in the gloom. They continued up thestaircase, and I’m sorry to say that the two older Baudelaires took many, many turnsholding Sunny. If the Baudelaires had been going up a staircase of regular size, Iwould write the sentence “Up and up they went,” but a more appropriate sentencewould begin “Up and up and up and up” and would take either forty-eight or eightyfour pages to reach “they went,” because the staircase was so unbelievably lengthy.Occasionally, they would pass the shadowy figure of someone else walking down thestairs, but the children were too tired to say even “Good afternoon”—and, later,“Good evening”—to these other residents of 667 Dark Avenue. The Baudelaires grewhungry. They grew achy. And they grew very tired of gazing at identical candles andsteps and doors.Just when they could stand it no longer, they reached another candle and step anddoor, and about five flights after that the stairs finally ended and deposited the tiredchildren in a small room with one last candle sitting in the middle of the carpet. Bythe light of the candle, the Baudelaire orphans could see the door to their new home,and across the way, two pairs of sliding elevator doors with arrowed buttonsalongside.“Just think,” Violet said, panting from her long walk up the stairs, “if elevatorswere in, we would have arrived at the Squalor penthouse in just a few minutes.”“Well, maybe they’ll be back in soon,” Klaus said. “I hope so. The other door mustbe to the Squalors’ apartment. Let’s knock.”They knocked on the door, and almost instantly it swung open to reveal a tall manwearing a suit with long, narrow stripes down it. Such a suit is called a pinstripe suit,and is usually worn by people who are either movie stars or gangsters.“I thought I heard someone approaching the door,” the man said, giving thechildren a smile that was so big they could see it even in the dim room. “Please comein. My name is Jerome Squalor, and I’m so happy that you’ve come to stay with us.”“I’m very pleased to meet you, Mr. Squalor,” Violet said, still panting, as she andher siblings walked into an entryway almost as dim as the staircase. “I’m VioletBaudelaire, and this is my brother, Klaus, and my sister, Sunny.”“Goodness, you sound out of breath,” Mr. Squalor said. “Luckily, I can think oftwo things to do about that. One is that you can stop calling me Mr. Squalor and startcalling me Jerome. I’ll call you three by your first names, too, and that way we’ll allsave breath. The second thing is that I’ll make you a nice, cold martini. Come rightthis way.”“A martini?” Klaus asked. “Isn’t that an alcoholic beverage?”“Usually it is,” Jerome agreed. “But right now, alcoholic martinis are out. Aqueousmartinis are in. An aqueous martini is simply cold water served in a fancy glass withan olive in it, so it’s perfectly legal for children as well as for adults.”“I’ve never had an aqueous martini,” Violet said, “but I’ll try one.”“Ah!” Jerome said. “You’re adventurous! I like that in a person. Your mother wasadventurous, too. You know, she and I were very good friends a ways back. We hikedup Mount Fraught with some friends—gosh, it must have been twenty years ago.Mount Fraught was known for having dangerous animals on it, but your motherwasn’t afraid. But then, swooping out of the sky—”“Jerome, who was that at the door?” called a voice from the next room, and inwalked a tall, slender woman, also dressed in a pinstripe suit. She had longfingernails that were so strongly polished that they shone even in the dim light.“The Baudelaire children, of course,” Jerome replied.“But they’re not coming today!” the woman cried.“Of course they are,” Jerome said. “I’ve been looking forward to it for days anddays! You know,” he said, turning from the woman to the Baudelaires, “I wanted toadopt you from the moment I heard about the fire. But, unfortunately, it wasimpossible.”“Orphans were out then,” the woman explained. “Now they’re in.”“My wife is always very attentive to what’s in and what’s out,” Jerome said. “Idon’t care about it much, but Esmé feels differently. She was the one who insisted onhaving the elevator removed. Esmé, I was just about to make them some aqueousmartinis. Would you like one?”“Oh, yes!” Esmé cried. “Aqueous martinis are in!” She walked quickly over to thechildren and looked them over. “I’m Esmé Gigi Geniveve Squalor, the city’s sixthmost important financial advisor,” she announced grandly. “Even though I amunbelievably wealthy, you may call me Esmé. I’ll learn your names later. I’m veryhappy you’re here, because orphans are in, and when all my friends hear that I havethree real live orphans, they’ll be sick with jealousy, won’t they, Jerome?”“I hope not,” Jerome said, leading the children down a long, dim hallway to ahuge, dim room that had various fancy couches, chairs, and tables. At the far end ofthe room was a series of windows, all with their shades drawn so that no light couldget in. “I don’t like to hear of anybody getting sick. Well, have a seat, children, andwe’ll tell you a little bit about your new home.”The Baudelaires sat down in three huge chairs, grateful for the opportunity to resttheir feet. Jerome crossed to one of the tables, where a pitcher of water sat next to abowl of olives and some fancy glasses, and quickly prepared the aqueous martinis.“Here you go,” he said, handing Esmé and the children each a fancy glass. “Let’s see.In case you ever get lost, remember that your new address is 667 Dark Avenue in thepenthouse apartment.”“Oh, don’t tell them silly things like that,” Esmé said, waving her long-nailed handin front of her face as if a moth were attacking it. “Children, here are some things youshould know. Dark is in. Light is out. Stairs are in. Elevators are out. Pinstripe suitsare in. Those horrible clothes you are wearing are out.”“What Esmé means,” Jerome said quickly, “is that we want you to feel ascomfortable here as possible.”Violet took a sip of her aqueous martini. She was not surprised to find that it tastedlike plain water, with a slight hint of olive. She didn’t like it much, but it did quenchher thirst from the long climb up the stairs. “That’s very nice of you,” she said.“Mr. Poe told me about some of your previous guardians,” Jerome said, shakinghis head. “I feel awful that you’ve had such terrible experiences, and that we couldhave cared for you the entire time.”“It couldn’t be helped,” Esmé said. “When something is out, it’s out, and orphansused to be out.”“I heard all about this Count Olaf person, too,” Jerome said. “I told the doormannot to let anyone in the building who looked even vaguely like that despicable man,so you should be safe.”“That’s a relief,” Klaus said.“That dreadful man is supposed to be up on some mountain, anyway,” Esmé said.“Remember, Jerome? That unstylish banker said he was going away in a helicopter togo find those twins he kidnapped.”“Actually,” Violet said, “they’re triplets. The Quagmires are good friends of ours.”“My word!” Jerome said. “You must be worried sick!”“Well, if they find them soon,” Esmé said, “maybe we’ll adopt them, too. Fiveorphans! I’ll be the innest person in town!”“We certainly have room for them,” Jerome said. “This is a seventy-one-bedroomapartment, children, so you will have your pick of rooms. Klaus, Poe mentionedsomething about your being interested in inventing things, is that right?”“My sister’s the inventor,” Klaus replied. “I’m more of a researcher myself.”“Well, then,” Jerome said. “You can have the bedroom next to the library, andViolet can have the one that has a large wooden bench, perfect for keeping tools.Sunny can be in the room between you two. How does that sound?” That soundedabsolutely splendid, of course, but the Baudelaire orphans did not get an opportunityto say so, because a telephone rang just at that instant.“I’ll get it! I’ll get it!” Esmé cried, and raced across the room to pick up the phone.“Squalor residence,” she said, into the receiver, and then waited as the person spokeon the other end. “Yes, this is Mrs. Squalor. Yes. Yes. Yes? Oh, thank you, thank you,thank you!” She hung up the phone and turned to the children. “Guess what?” sheasked. “I have some fantastic news on what we were talking about!”“The Quagmires have been found?” Klaus asked hopefully.“Who?” Esmé asked. “Oh, them. No, they haven’t been found. Don’t be silly.Jerome, children, listen to me—dark is out! Regular light is in!”“Well, I’m not sure I’d call that fantastic news,” Jerome said, “but it will be a reliefto get some light around this place. Come on, Baudelaires, help me open the shadesand you can get a look at our view. You can see quite a bit from so high up.”“I’ll go turn on all the lamps in the penthouse,” Esmé said breathlessly. “Quickly,before anybody sees that this apartment is still dark!”Esmé dashed from the room, while Jerome gave the three siblings a little shrugand walked across the room to the windows. The Baudelaires followed him, andhelped him open the heavy shades that were covering the windows. Instantly,sunlight streamed into the room, making them squint as their eyes adjusted to regularlight. If the Baudelaires had looked around the room now that it was properlyilluminated, they would have seen just how fancy all the furniture was. The coucheshad pillows embroidered with silver. The chairs were all painted with gold paint. Andthe tables were made from wood chopped away from some of the most expensivetrees in the world. But the Baudelaire orphans were not looking around the room, asluxurious as it was. They were looking out of the window onto the city below.“Spectacular view, don’t you think?” Jerome asked them, and they nodded inagreement. It was as if they were looking out on a tiny, tiny city, with matchboxesinstead of buildings and bookmarks instead of streets. They could see tiny coloredshapes that looked like various insects but were really all the cars and carriages intown, driving along the bookmarks until they reached the matchboxes where the tinydots of people lived and worked. The Baudelaires could see the neighborhood wherethey had lived with their parents, and the parts of town where their friends had lived,and in a faint blue strip far, far away, the beach where they had received the terriblenews that had begun all their misfortune.“I knew you’d like it,” Jerome said. “It’s very expensive to live in a penthouseapartment, but I think it’s worth it for a view like this. Look, those tiny round boxesover there are orange juice factories. That sort of purplish building next to the park ismy favorite restaurant. Oh, and look straight down—they’re already cutting downthose awful trees that made our street so dark.”“Of course they’re cutting them down,” Esmé said, hurrying back into the roomand blowing out a few candles that were sitting on the mantelpiece. “Regular light isin—as in as aqueous martinis, pinstripes, and orphans.”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny looked straight down, and saw that Jerome was right.Those strange trees that had blocked out the sunlight on Dark Avenue, looking notaller than paper clips from such a great height, were being chopped down by littlegardener dots. Even though the trees had made the street seem so gloomy, it seemed ashame to tear them all down, leaving bare stumps that, from the penthouse window,looked like thumbtacks. The three siblings looked at one another, and then backdown to Dark Avenue . Those trees were no longer in, so the gardeners were gettingrid of them. The Baudelaires did not like to think of what would happen whenorphans were no longer in, either.C H A P T E RThreeIf you were to take a plastic bag and place it inside a large bowl, and then, using awooden spoon, stir the bag around and around the bowl, you could use the expression“a mixed bag” to describe what you had in front of you, but you would not be usingthe expression in the same way I am about to use it now. Although “a mixed bag”sometimes refers to a plastic bag that has been stirred in a bowl, more often it is usedto describe a situation that has both good parts and bad parts. An afternoon at a movietheater, for instance, would be a mixed bag if your favorite movie were showing, butif you had to eat gravel instead of popcorn. A trip to the zoo would be a very mixedbag if the weather were beautiful, but all of the man-and woman-eating lions wererunning around loose. And, for the Baudelaire orphans, their first few days with theSqualors were one of the most mixed bags they had yet encountered, because thegood parts were very good, but the bad parts were simply awful.One of the good parts was that the Baudelaires were living once more in the citywhere they were born and raised. After the Baudelaire parents had died, and aftertheir disastrous stay with Count Olaf, the three children had been sent to a number ofremote locations to live, and they sorely missed the familiar surroundings of theirhometown. Each morning, after Esmé left for work, Jerome would take the childrento some of their favorite places in town. Violet was happy to see that her favoriteexhibits at the Verne Invention Museum had not been changed, so she could takeanother look at the mechanical demonstrations that had inspired her to be an inventorwhen she was just two years old. Klaus was delighted to revisit the AkhmatovaBookstore, where his father used to take him as a special treat, to buy an atlas or avolume of the encyclopedia. And Sunny was interested in visiting the Pincus Hospitalwhere she was born, although her memories of this place were a little fuzzy.But in the afternoons, the three children would return to 667 Dark Avenue , and itwas this part of the Baudelaires’ situation that was not nearly as pleasant. For onething, the penthouse was simply too big. Besides the seventy-one bedrooms, therewere a number of living rooms, dining rooms, breakfast rooms, snack rooms, sittingrooms, standing rooms, ballrooms, bathrooms, kitchens, and an assortment of roomsthat seemed to have no purpose at all. The penthouse was so enormous that theBaudelaire orphans often found themselves hopelessly lost inside it. Violet wouldleave her bedroom to go brush her teeth and not find her way back for an hour. Klauswould accidentally leave his glasses on a kitchen counter and waste the wholeafternoon trying to find the right kitchen. And Sunny would find a very comfortablespot for sitting and biting things and be unable to find it the next day. It was oftendifficult to spend any time with Jerome, simply because it was very difficult to findhim amid all the fancy rooms of their new home, and the Baudelaires scarcely sawEsmé at all. They knew she went off to work every day and returned in the evenings,but even at the times when she was in the apartment with them, the three childrenscarcely caught a glimpse of the city’s sixth most important financial advisor. It wasas if she had forgotten all about the new members of her family, or was simply moreinterested in lounging around the rooms in the apartment rather than spending timewith the three siblings. But the Baudelaire orphans did not really mind that Esmé wasabsent so often. They much preferred spending time with one another, or withJerome, rather than participating in endless conversations about what was in and whatwas out. Even when the Baudelaires stayed in their bedrooms, the three children didnot have such a splendid time. As he had promised, Jerome had given Violet thebedroom with the large wooden bench, which was indeed perfect for keeping tools,but Violet could find no tools in the entire penthouse. She found it odd that such anenormous apartment would have not even a socket wrench or one measly pair ofpliers, but Esmé haughtily explained, when Violet asked her one evening, that toolswere out. Klaus did have the Squalor library next to his bedroom, and it was a largeand comfortable room with hundreds of books on its shelves. But the middleBaudelaire was disappointed to find that every single book was merely a descriptionof what had been in and out during various times in history. Klaus tried to interesthimself in books of this type, but it was so dull to read a snooty book like Boots WereIn in 1812 or Trout: In France They’re Out that Klaus found himself spendingscarcely any time in the library at all. And poor Sunny fared no better, a phrase whichhere means “also became bored in her bedroom.” Jerome had thoughtfully placed anumber of toys in her room, but they were the sort of toys designed for softertoothedbabies— squishy stuffed animals, cushioned balls, and assorted colorful pillows,none of which were the least bit fun to bite.But what really mixed the Baudelaire bag was not the overwhelming size of theSqualor apartment, or the disappointments of a tool bench without tools, a librarywithoutinteresting books, or nonchewable items of amusement. What really troubled the threechildren was the thought that the Quagmire triplets were undoubtedly experiencing thingsthat were much, much worse. With every passing day, their worry for their friends felt likea heavy load on the Baudelaires’ shoulders, and the load only seemed heavier, because theSqualors refused to be of any assistance.“I’m very, very tired of discussing your little twin friends,” Esmé said one day, asthe Baudelaires and the Squalors sipped aqueous martinis one evening in a livingroom the children had never seen before. “I know you’re worried about them, but it’sboring to keep blabbing on about it.”“We didn’t mean to bore you,” Violet said, not adding that it is terribly rude to tellpeople that their troubles are boring.“Of course you didn’t,” Jerome said, picking the olive out of his fancy glass andpopping it into his mouth before turning to his wife. “The children are concerned,Esmé, which is perfectly understandable. I know Mr. Poe is doing all he can, butmaybe we can put our heads together and come up with something else.”“I don’t have time to put my head together,” Esmé said. “The In Auction is comingup, and I have to devote all of my energy to making sure it’s a success.”“The In Auction?” Klaus asked.“An auction,” Jerome explained, “is a sort of sale. Everyone gets together in alarge room, and an auctioneer shows off a bunch of things that are available forpurchase. If you see something you like, you call out how much you’d be willing topay for it. That’s called a bid. Then somebody else might call out a bid, andsomebody else, and whoever calls out the highest price wins the auction and buys theitem in question. It’s terribly exciting. Your mother used to love them! I rememberone time—”“You forgot the most important part,” Esmé interrupted. “It’s called the In Auctionbecause we’re selling only things that are in. I always organize it, and it’s one of themost smashing events of the year!”“Smashi?” Sunny asked.“In this case,” Klaus explained to his younger sister, “the word ‘smashing’ doesn’tmean that things got smashed up. It just means ‘fabulous.’”“And it is fabulous,” Esmé said, finishing her aqueous martini. “We hold theauction at Veblen Hall, and we auction off only the innest things we can find, andbest of all, all the money goes to a good cause.”“Which good cause?” Violet asked. Esmé clapped her long-nailed hands togetherwith glee. “Me! Every last bit of money that people pay at the auction goes right tome! Isn’t that smashing?”“Actually, dear,” Jerome said, “I was thinking that this year, perhaps we shouldgive the money to another good cause. For instance, I was just reading about thisfamily of seven. The mother and father lost their jobs, and now they’re so poor thatthey can’t even afford to live in a one-room apartment. We might send some of theauction money to people like them.”“Don’t talk nonsense,” Esmé said crossly. “If we give money to poor people, thenthey won’t be poor anymore. Besides, this year we’re going to make heaps of money.I had lunch with twelve millionaires this morning, and eleven of them said they weredefinitely going to attend the In Auction. The twelfth one has to go to a birthdayparty. Just think of the money I’ll make, Jerome! Maybe we could move to a biggerapartment!”“But we just moved in a few weeks ago,” Jerome said. “I’d rather spend somemoney on putting the elevator back in use. It’s very tiring to climb all the way up tothe penthouse.”“There you go, talking nonsense again,” Esmé said. “If I’m not listening to myorphans babble about their kidnapped friends, I’m listening to you talk about outthings like elevators. Well, we have no more time for chitchat in any case. Gunther isstopping by tonight, and I want you, Jerome, to take the children out for dinner.”“Who is Gunther?” Jerome asked.“Gunther is the auctioneer, of course,” Esmé replied. “He’s supposed to be theinnest auctioneer in town, and he’s going to help me organize the auction. He’scoming over tonight to discuss the auction catalog, and we don’t want to bedisturbed. That’s why I want you to go out to dinner, and give us a little privacy.”“But I was going to teach the children how to play chess tonight,” Jerome said.“No, no, no,” Esmé said. “You’re going out to dinner. It’s all arranged. I made areservation at Café Salmonella for seven o’clock. It’s six o’clock now, so you shouldget moving. You want to allow plenty of time to walk down all those stairs. Butbefore you leave, children, I have a present for each of you.”At this, the Baudelaire children were taken aback, a phrase which here means“surprised that someone who was so selfish had purchased gifts for them,” but sureenough, Esmé reached behind the dark red sofa she was sitting on, and brought outthree shopping bags that had the words “In Boutique” written on them in fancy, curlyscript. With an elegant gesture, Esmé handed a bag to each Baudelaire.“I thought if I bought you something you really wanted,” she said, “you might stopall this chatter about the Quagmires.”“What Esmé means,” Jerome added hurriedly, “is that we want you to be happyhere in our home, even when you’re worried about your friends.”“That’s not what I mean at all,” Esmé said, “but never mind. Open the bags, kids.”The Baudelaires opened their presents, and I’m sorry to say that the shopping bagswere mixed bags as well. There are many, many things that are difficult in this life,but one thing that isn’t difficult at all is figuring out whether someone is excited ornot when they open a present. If someone is excited, they will often put exclamationpoints at the ends of their sentences to indicate their excited tone of voice. If they say“Oh!” for instance, the exclamation point would indicate that the person is saying“Oh!” in an excited way, rather than simply saying “Oh,” with a comma after it,which would indicate that the present is somewhat disappointing.“Oh,” Violet said, as she opened her present.“Oh,” Klaus said, as he opened his.“Oh,” Sunny said, as she tore open her shopping bag with her teeth.“Pinstripe suits! I knew you’d be excited!” Esmé said. “You must have beenmortified the last few days, walking around the city without wearing any pinstripes!Pinstripes are in, and orphans are in, so just imagine how in you’ll be when youorphans are wearing pinstripes! No wonder you’re so excited!”“They didn’t sound excited when they opened the presents,” Jerome said, “and Idon’t blame them. Esmé, I thought we said that we’d buy Violet a tool kit. She’s veryenthusiastic about inventing, and I thought we’d support that enthusiasm.”“But I’m enthusiastic about pinstripe suits, too,” Violet said, knowing that youshould always say that you are delighted with a present even when you don’t like it atall. “Thank you very much.”“And Klaus was supposed to get a good almanac,” Jerome continued. “I told youabout his interest in the International Date Line, and an almanac is the perfect book tolearn all about that.”“But I’m very interested in pinstripes,” said Klaus, who could lie as well as hissister, when the need arose. “I really appreciate this gift.”“And Sunny,” Jerome said, “was going to be given a large square made of bronze.It would have been attractive, and easily bitable.”“Ayjim,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of “I love my suit.Thank you very much,” even though she didn’t mean it one bit.“I know we discussed buying those silly items,” Esmé said, with a wave of herlong nailed hand, “but tools have been out for weeks, almanacs have been out formonths, and I received a phone call this afternoon informing me that large bronzesquares are not expected to be in for at least another year. What’s in now is pinstripes,Jerome, and I don’t appreciate your trying to teach my new children that they shouldignore what’s in and what’s out. Don’t you want what’s best for the orphans?”“Of course,” Jerome sighed. “I hadn’t thought of it that way, Esmé. Well, children,I do hope you like your gifts, even though they don’t exactly match up with yourinterests. Why don’t you go change into your new suits, and we’ll wear them todinner?”“Oh, yes!” Esmé said. “Café Salmonella is one of the innest restaurants. In fact, Ithink they don’t even let you eat there if you’re not wearing pinstripes, so go change.But hurry up! Gunther is due to arrive any minute.”“We’ll hurry,” Klaus promised, “and thank you again for our gifts.”“You’re very welcome,” Jerome said with a smile, and the children smiled back athim, walked out of the living room, down a long hallway, across a kitchen, throughanother living room, past four bathrooms, and so on and so on and so on, eventuallyfinding their way to their bedrooms. They stood together for a minute outside thethree bedroom doors, looking sadly into their shopping bags.“I don’t know how we’re going to wear these things,” Violet said.“I don’t either,” Klaus said. “And it’s all the worse knowing that we almost gotpresents we really want.”“Puictiw,” Sunny agreed glumly.“Listen to us,” Violet said. “We sound hopelessly spoiled. We’re living in anenormous apartment. We each have our own room. The doorman has promised towatch out for Count Olaf, and at least one of our new guardians is an interestingperson. And yet we’re standing here complaining.”“You’re right,” Klaus said. “We should make the best of things. Getting a lousypresent isn’t really worth complaining over—not when our friends are in such terribledanger. We’re really very lucky to be here at all.”“Chittol,” Sunny said, which meant something like “That’s true. We should stopcomplaining and go change into our new outfits.”The Baudelaires stood together for another moment and nodded resolutely, aphrase which here means “tried to make themselves stop feeling ungrateful and puton the suits.” But even though they didn’t want to seem spoiled, even though theyknew their situation was not a terrible one at all, and even though they had less thanan hour to change into the suits, find Jerome, and walk down all those hundreds andhundreds of stairs, the three children could not seem to move. They simply stood infront of their bedroom doors and stared into their bags from the In Boutique.“Of course,” Klaus said finally, “no matter how lucky we are, the fact remains thatthese pinstripe suits are entirely too big for us.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 6 - TheErsatz ElevatorKlaus spoke the truth. It was a truth that might help you understand why theBaudelaires were so disappointed with what was in their bags. It was a truth thatmight help you understand why the Baudelaires were so reluctant to go into theirrooms and change into their pinstripe suits. And it was a truth that became even moreobvious when the Baudelaires finally went into their rooms, and opened their bagsand put on the gifts that Esmé had given them.It is often difficult to tell if a piece of clothing will fit you or not until you try it on,but the Baudelaire children could tell the instant they first looked into the shoppingbags that these clothes dwarfed them by comparison. The expression “dwarfed bycomparison” has nothing to do with dwarves, who are dull creatures in fairy taleswho spend their time whistling and cleaning house. “Dwarfed by comparison” simplymeans that one thing seems small when compared to another thing. A mouse wouldbe dwarfed by comparison with an ostrich, which is much bigger, and an ostrichwould be dwarfed by comparison with the city of Paris . And the Baudelaires weredwarfed by comparison with the pinstripe suits. When Violet put the pants part of hersuit on, the legs of the suit stretched much, much farther than the legs of her body, soit was as if she had two huge noodles instead of feet. When Klaus put the jacket partof his suit on, the sleeves fell far, far past his hands, so his arms looked as if they hadshrunk up inside his body. And Sunny’s suit dwarfed her so much by comparison thatit was as if she had pulled the covers over her in bed instead of changing her clothes.When the Baudelaires stepped back out of their bedrooms and met up again in thehallway, they were so dwarfed by comparison that they scarcely recognized oneanother.“You look like you’re skiing,” Klaus said, pointing at his older sister’s pant legs.“Except your skis are made of cloth instead of titanium alloy.”C H A P T E RFourIf you are ever forced to take a chemistry class, you will probably see, at the frontof the classroom, a large chart divided into squares, with different numbers and letters ineach of them. This chart is called the table of the elements, and scientists like to say that itcontains all the substances that make up our world. Like everyone else, scientists arewrong from time to time, and it is easy to see that they are wrong about the table of theelements. Because although this table contains a great many elements, from the elementoxygen, which is found in the air, to the element aluminum, which is found in cans ofsoda, the table of the elements does not contain one of the most powerful elements thatmake up our world, and that is the element of surprise. The element of surprise is not agas, like oxygen, or a solid, like aluminum. The element of surprise is an unfair advantage,and it can be found in situations in which one person has sneaked up on another. Thesurprised person—or, in this sad case, the surprised persons—are too stunned to defendthemselves, and the sneaky person has the advantage of the element of surprise.“Hello, please,” Count Olaf said in his raspy voice, and the Baudelaire orphanswere too stunned to defend themselves. They did not scream. They did not run awayfrom Olaf. They did not call out for their guardians to save them. They merely stoodthere, in their enormous pinstripe suits, and stared at the terrible man who hadsomehow found them once more.As Olaf looked down at them with a nasty smile, enjoying the unfair advantage ofthe element of surprise, the children saw that he was in yet another of his nefariousdisguises, a phrase which here means that he did not fool them one bit no matter whathe was wearing. On Olaf’s feet were a pair of shiny black boots with high tops thatalmost reached his knees—the sort of boots that someone might wear to ride a horse.Over one of Olaf’s eyes was a monocle, which is an eyeglass for one eye, instead oftwo—the sort of eyewear that requires you to furrow your brow in order to keep it inplace. And the rest of his body was covered in a pinstripe suit—the sort of suit thatsomeone might wear in order to be in at the time when this story takes place. But theBaudelaires knew that Olaf didn’t care about being in, any more than he hadimperfect vision in one eye or was about to go horseback riding. The three childrenknew that Olaf was wearing boots to cover up the tattoo of an eye that he had on hisleft ankle. They knew he was wearing the monocle so that he could furrow his browand make it difficult to see that he had only one long eyebrow over his shiny, shinyeyes. And they knew that he was wearing a pinstripe suit so that people would thinkhe was a rich, in person who belonged on Dark Avenue , instead of a greedy,treacherous villain who belonged in a heavily guarded prison.“You must be children, please,” he continued, using the word “please” incorrectlyfor the second time. “The name of mine is Gunther. Please excuse the talking of me.Please, I am not fluent in the English language, please.”“How …” Violet said, and then stopped. She was still stunned, and it was difficultto finish the sentence “How did you find us so quickly, and how did you get past thedoorman, who promised to keep you away from us?” while under the element ofsurprise.“Where …” Klaus said, and then stopped. He was as stunned as his sister, and hefound it impossible to finish the sentence “Where have you put the Quagmiretriplets?” while under the element of surprise.“Bik …” Sunny said, and stopped. The element of surprise weighed down on theyoungest Baudelaire as heavily as it did on Violet and Klaus, and Sunny could notfind the words to finish the sentence “Bikayado?” which meant something like “Whatnew evil plan have you cooked up to steal our fortune?”“I see you are not fluent in the English language either, please,” Count Olaf said,continuing to fake a different way of talking. “Where is the mother and father?”“We’re not the mother and father,” Esmé said, and the Baudelaires felt anotherelement of surprise as the Squalors walked into the hallway from another door.“We’re the legal guardians. These children are orphans, Gunther.”“Ah!” From behind his monocle, Count Olaf’s eyes grew even shinier, as theyoften did when he was looking down on the helpless Baudelaires. The children felt asif his eyes were a pair of lit matches, about to burn them to a crisp. “Orphans in!” hesaid.“I know orphans are in,” Esmé said, ignoring Olaf’s improper grammar. “In fact,they’re so in they ought to be auctioned off next week at the big event!”“Esmé!” Jerome said. “I’m shocked! We’re not going to auction off thesechildren.”“Of course we’re not,” Esmé said. “It’s against the law to auction off children. Oh,well. Come along, Gunther. I’ll give you a full tour of our apartment. Jerome, takethe children to Café Salmonella.”“But we haven’t even introduced them,” Jerome said. “Violet, Klaus, Sunny—meet Gunther, the auctioneer we were talking about earlier. Gunther, meet the newestmembers of our family.”“I am happy to meet you, please,” Olaf said, reaching out one of his scragglyhands.“We’ve met before,” Violet said, happy to see that the element of surprise wasfading away and that she was finding the courage to speak up. “Many times before.Jerome and Esmé, this man is an impostor. He’s not Gunther and he’s not anauctioneer. This is Count Olaf.”“I am not understanding, please, what the orphan is saying,” Olaf said. “Please, Iam not fluent in the English language, please.”“Yes you are,” said Klaus, who also found himself feeling more courageous thansurprised. “You speak English perfectly.”“Why, Klaus, I’m surprised at you!” Jerome said. “A well-read person such asyourself should know he made a few grammatical errors.”“Waran!” Sunny shrieked.“My sister is right,” Violet said. “His improper English is just part of his disguise.If you make him take off his boots, you’ll see his tattoo, and if you make him take offhis monocle, his brow will unfurrow, and—”“Gunther is one of the innest auctioneers in the world,” Esmé said impatiently.“He told me so himself. I’m not going to make him get undressed just to make youfeel better. Now shake Gunther’s hand, and go off to dinner and we’ll say no moreabout it.”“He’s not Gunther, I tell you!” Klaus cried. “He’s Count Olaf.”“I am not knowing what you are saying, please,” Count Olaf said, shrugging hisscrawny shoulders.“Esmé,” Jerome said hesitantly. “How can we be sure this man is really who hesays he is? ‘ The children do seem quite alarmed. Perhaps we should—”“Perhaps we should listen to me,” Esmé said, pointing one long-nailed finger atherself. “I am Esmé Gigi Geniveve Squalor, the city’s sixth most important financialadvisor. I live on Dark Avenue , and I am unbelievably wealthy.”“I know that, dear,” Jerome said. “I live with you.”“Well, if you want to continue to live with me, you will call this man by his propername, and this goes for you three children as well. I go to the trouble of buying yousome smashing pinstripe suits, and you start accusing people of being in disguise!”“It is O.K., please,” Count Olaf said. “The children are confused.”“We’re not confused, Olaf,” Violet said.Esmé turned to Violet and gave her an angry glare. “You and your siblings willcall this man Gunther,” she ordered, “or you will make me very, very sorry I took youinto my glamorous home.”Violet looked at Klaus, and then at Sunny, and quickly made a decision. Arguingwith somebody is never pleasant, but sometimes it is useful and necessary to do so.Just the other day, for example, it was useful and necessary for me to have anunpleasant argument with a medical student, because if he hadn’t let me borrow hisspeedboat I would now be chained inside a very small, waterproof room, instead ofsitting in a typewriter factory typing out this woeful tale. But Violet realized that itwas neither useful nor necessary to argue with Esmé, because her guardian hadclearly made up her mind about Gunther. It would be more useful and necessary toleave the penthouse and try to figure out what to do about the reappearance of thisdreadful villain, instead of standing there and bickering over what name to call him,so Violet took a deep breath and smiled up at the man who had brought so muchtrouble into the Baudelaire lives.“I’m sorry, Gunther,” she said, almost choking on her false apology.“But—” Klaus started to argue, but Violet gave him a look that meant theBaudelaires would discuss the matter later, when there weren’t any adults around.“That’s right,” he said quickly, understanding his sister’s glance at once. “We thoughtyou were someone else, sir.”Gunther reached up to his face and adjusted his monocle. “O.K., please,” he said.“It’s so much nicer when no one is arguing,” Jerome said. “Come on, children,let’s go to dinner. Gunther and Esmé have to plan the auction, and they need theapartment to themselves.”“Let me just take a minute to roll up my sleeves,” Klaus replied. “Our suits are alittle big.”“First you complain that Gunther is an impostor, then you complain about yoursuits,” Esmé said, rolling her eyes. “I guess it goes to show you that orphans can bein and rude at the same time. Come on, Gunther , let me show you the rest of myglorious apartment.”“See you later, please,” Gunther said to the children, his eyes shining brightly, andgave them a little wave as he followed Esmé down the hallway. Jerome waved back,but as soon as Gunther was around the corner, he leaned in close to the children.“That was very nice of you to stop arguing with Esmé,” he said. “I could tell thatyou weren’t completely convinced you had made a mistake about Gunther. But don’tworry. There is something we can do to set your minds at ease.”The Baudelaires looked at one another and smiled in relief. “Oh, thank you,Jerome,” Violet said. “What did you have in mind?”Jerome smiled, and knelt down to help Violet roll up the legs of her suit. “I wonder ifyou can guess,” he said.“We could make Gunther take off his boots,” she said, “and we could see if he hadOlaf’s tattoo.”“Or we could make him remove his monocle and unfurrow his brow,” Klaus said,as he rolled up his sleeves, “and we could get a better look at his eyebrow situation.”“Resyca!” Sunny said, which meant something like “Or you could simply ask himto leave the penthouse, and never return!”“Well, I don’t know what ‘Resyca!’ means,” Jerome said, “but we’re not going todo those other things. Gunther is a guest, and we don’t want to be rude to him.”The Baudelaires actually did want to be rude to him, but they knew it was rude tosay so. “Then what will set our minds at ease?” Violet asked.“Instead of climbing down all those stairs,” Jerome said, “we can slide down thebanister! It’s great fun, and whenever I do it, it takes my mind off my troubles, nomatter what they are. Follow me!”Sliding down a banister, of course, was not going to make the Baudelaires feel anybetter about an evil person lurking around their home, but before any of them couldsay so, Jerome was already leading the way out of the penthouse. “Come on,Baudelaires!” he called, and the children followed him as he walked quickly downthe hallway, through four sitting rooms, across a kitchen, past nine bedrooms, andfinally out of the apartment. He led the youngsters past the two pairs of elevatordoors to the top of the staircase, and sat on the banister with a wide grin.“I’ll go first,” he said, “so you’ll see how it’s done. Be careful on the curvy parts,and if you’re going too fast you can slow yourself down by scraping your shoes alongthe wall. Don’t be scared!”Jerome gave himself a push, and in a second he had slid out of view, his laughterechoing off the stairwell as he raced down toward the lobby. The children lookeddown the stairway and felt their hearts sink with fear. It was not the fear of slidingdown the banister. The Baudelaires had slid down plenty of banisters, and althoughthey had never slid down one that was either forty-eight or eighty-four stories high,they were not scared to try, particularly now that regular light was in so they couldsee where they were going. But they were afraid nonetheless. They were afraid thatGunther had a clever and nasty scheme to get his hands on the Baudelaire fortune,and that they didn’t have the faintest idea of what it was. They were afraid thatsomething dreadful had happened to the Quagmire triplets, because Gunther seemedto have time to find the Baudelaires here in their new home. And they were afraidthat the Squalors would not be of any assistance in keeping the three children safefrom Gunther’s crooked clutches. Jerome’s laughter grew fainter and fainter as heslid farther and farther away, and as they stood together without a word and lookeddown the stairway, which curved and curved and curved as far as their eyes couldsee, the Baudelaire orphans were afraid that it was all downhill from here.always wet from the sea breeze, and the feet of passersby made bubbly, splashy soundsthat resembled the noises made by sea creatures. And it looked like fish because all of thebuildings in the Fish District were made of shiny, silvery scales, instead of bricks orwooden planks. When the Baudelaire orphans arrived at the Fish District and followedJerome to Café Salmonella, they had to look up at the evening sky to remind themselvesthat they were not underwater.Café Salmonella was not just a restaurant, but a theme restaurant, which simplymeans a restaurant with food and decorations that follow a certain idea. The themefor Café Salmonella— and you can probably guess this from its name— was salmon.There were pictures of salmon on the walls, and drawings of salmon on the menu,and the waiters and waitresses were dressed up in salmon costumes, which made itdifficult for them to carry plates and trays. The tables were decorated with vases fullof salmon, instead of flowers, and of course all of the food that Café Salmonellaserved had something to do with salmon. There is nothing particularly wrong withsalmon, of course, but like caramel candy, strawberry yogurt, and liquid carpetcleaner, if you eat too much of it you are not going to enjoy your meal. And so it wasthat evening with the Baudelaire orphans. Their costumed waiter first brought bowlsof creamy salmon soup to the table, and then some chilled salmon salad and thensome broiled salmon served with salmon ravioli in a salmon butter sauce for a maincourse, and by the time the waiter brought over salmon pie with a scoop of salmonice cream on top the children never wanted to have another bite of salmon again. Buteven if the meal had featured a variety of foods, all cooked deliciously and broughtby a waiter dressed in a simple, comfortable outfit, the Baudelaires would not haveenjoyed their dinner, because the thought of Gunther spending the evening alone withtheir guardian made them lose their appetite far more than too much pink, flavorfulfish, and Jerome was simply not willing to discuss the matter any further.“I am simply not willing to discuss the matter any further,” Jerome said, taking asip from his water glass, which had chunks of frozen salmon floating in it instead ofice cubes. “And frankly, Baudelaires, I think you should be a little ashamed of yoursuspicions. Do you know what the word ‘xenophobe’ means?”Violet and Sunny shook their heads, and looked over at their brother, who wastrying to remember if he had come across the word in one of his books. “When aword ends in ‘- phobe,’” Klaus said, wiping his mouth with a salmon-shaped napkin,“it usually means somebody who is afraid of something. Does ‘xeno’ mean ‘Olaf’?”“No,” Jerome said. “It means ‘stranger,’ or ‘foreigner.’ A xenophobe is somebodywho is afraid of people just because they come from a different country, which is asilly reason for fear. I would have thought that you three would be far too sensible tobe xenophobes. After all, Violet, Galileo came from a country in Europe, and heinvented the telescope. Would you be afraid of him?”“No,” Violet said. “I’d be honored to meet him. But—”“And Klaus,” Jerome continued, “surely you’ve heard of the writer JunichiroTanizaki, who came from a country in Asia. Would you be afraid of him?”“Of course not,” Klaus said. “But—”“And Sunny,” Jerome continued. “The sharp-toothed mountain lion can be foundin a number of countries in North America. Would you be afraid if you met amountain lion?”“Netesh,” Sunny said, which meant something like “Of course I would! Mountainlions are wild animals,” but Jerome continued talking as if he hadn’t heard a word shesaid.“I don’t mean to scold you,” he said. “I know you’ve had a very difficult timesince your parents’ death, and Esmé and I want to do all we can to provide a good,safe home for you. I don’t think Count Olaf would dare come to our fancyneighborhood, but in case he does, the doorman will spot him and alert the authoritiesimmediately.”“But the doorman didn’t spot him,” Violet insisted. “He was in disguise.”“And Olaf would dare to go anywhere to find us,” Klaus added. “It doesn’t matterhow fancy the neighborhood is.”Jerome looked uncomfortably at the children. “Please don’t argue with me,” hesaid. “I can’t stand arguing.”“But sometimes it’s useful and necessary to argue,” Violet said.“I can’t think of a single argument that would be useful or necessary,” Jerome said.“For instance, Esmé made reservations for us here at Café Salmonella, and I can’tstand the taste of salmon. I could have argued with her about that, of course, but whywould it be useful?”“Well, you could have had a dinner that you enjoyed,” Klaus said.Jerome shook his head. “Someday, when you’re older, you’ll understand,” he said.“In the meantime, do you remember which salmon is our waiter? It’s close to yourbedtime, and I’d like to pay the bill and take you home.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another in frustration and sadness. Theywere frustrated from trying to convince Jerome of Gunther’s true identity, and theywere sad because they knew it was no use to keep on trying. They scarcely saidanother word as Jerome ushered them out of Café Salmonella and into a taxicab thatdrove them out of the Fish District to 667 Dark Avenue . On the way, the taxicabpassed the beach where the Baudelaires had first heard the terrible news about thefire, a time that seemed in the very, very distant past, even though it had not been allthat long ago, and as the children stared out the window at the ocean waves ripplingalong the dark, dark beach, they missed their parents more than ever. If theBaudelaire parents had been alive, they would have listened to their children. Theywould have believed them when they told them who Gunther really was. But whatmade the Baudelaires saddest of all was the fact that if the Baudelaire parents hadbeen alive, the three siblings would not even know who Count Olaf was, let alone bethe objects of his treacherous and greedy plans. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny sat in thetaxi and stared mournfully out the window, and they wished with all their might thatthey could return to the time when their lives were happy and carefree.“You’re back already?” the doorman asked, as he opened the door of the taxi witha hand still hidden in the sleeve of his coat. “Mrs. Squalor said that you were notsupposed to return until your guest left the penthouse, and he hasn’t come down yet.”Jerome looked at his watch and frowned. “It’s quite late,” he said. “The childrenshould be in bed soon. I’m sure if we’re very quiet, we won’t disturb them.”“I had very strict instructions,” the doorman said. “Nobody is supposed to enterthe penthouse apartment until the guest leaves the building, which he definitely hasnot done.”“I don’t want to argue with you,” Jerome said. “But perhaps he’s on his way downnow. It takes a long time to get down all those stairs, unless you’re sliding down thebanister. So it might be O.K. for us to go up.”“I never thought of that,” the doorman said, scratching his chin with his sleeve.“All right, I guess you can go up. Maybe you’ll run into him on the stairs.”The Baudelaire children looked at one another. They weren’t sure which madethem more nervous—the idea that Gunther had spent so much time in the Squalorpenthouse, or the idea that they might meet him as he came down the stairs. “Maybewe should wait for Gunther to leave,” Violet said. “We don’t want the doorman to getin trouble.”“No, no,” Jerome decided. “We’d best start the climb or we’ll be too tired to reachthe top. Sunny, be sure to let me know when you want me to carry you.”They walked into the lobby of the building and were surprised to see that it hadbeen completely redecorated while they were at dinner. All the walls were paintedblue, and the floor was covered in sand, with a few seashells scattered in the corners.“Ocean decorating is in,” the doorman explained. “I just got the phone call today.By tomorrow, the lobby will be filled with underwater scenery.”“I wish we’d known about this earlier,” Jerome said. “We would have broughtsomething back from the Fish District.”“Oh, I wish you had,” the doorman said. “Everybody wants ocean decorationsnow, and they’re getting hard to find.”“There are sure to be some ocean decorations for sale at the In Auction,” Jeromesaid, as he and the Baudelaires reached the beginning of the stairway. “Maybe youshould stop by and purchase something for the lobby.”“Maybe I will,” the doorman said, smiling oddly at the children. “Maybe I will.Have a good evening, folks.”The Baudelaires said good night to the doorman, and began the long climb up thestairs. Up and up and up they climbed, and they passed a number of people who wereon their way down, but although all of them were in pinstripe suits, none of themwere Gunther. As the children climbed higher and higher, the people going down thestairs looked more and more tired, and each time the Baudelaires passed an apartmentdoor, they heard the sounds of people getting ready for bed. On the seventeenth floor,they heard somebody ask their mother where the bubble bath was. On the thirtyeighth floor, they heard the sounds of somebody brushing their teeth. And on a floorvery high up—the children had lost count again, but it must have been quite high,because Jerome was carrying Sunny—they heard someone with a deep, deep voice,reading a children’s story out loud. All these sounds made them sleepier and sleepier,and by the time they reached the top floor the Baudelaire orphans were so tired it feltas if they were sleepwalking, or, in Sunny’s case, being sleep-carried. They were sotired that they almost dozed off, leaning against the two sets of sliding elevator doors,as Jerome unlocked the front door. And they were so tired that it seemed as ifGunther’s appearance had been a dream, because when they asked about him, Esméreplied that he had left a long time ago.“Gunther left?” Violet asked. “But the doorman said that he was still here.”“Oh, no,” Esmé said. “He dropped off a catalog of all the items for the In Auction.It’s in the library if you want to look at it. We went over some auctioneering details,and then he went home.”“But that can’t be,” Jerome said.“Of course it can be,” Esmé replied. “He walked right out the front door.”The Baudelaires looked at one another in confusion and suspicion. How hadGunther managed to leave the penthouse without being spotted? “Did he take anelevator when he left?” Klaus said.Esmé‘s eyes widened, and she opened and shut her mouth several times withoutsaying anything, as if she were experiencing the element of surprise. “No,” she saidfinally. “The elevator’s been shut down. You know that.”“But the doorman said he was still here,” Violet said again. “And we didn’t seehim when we walked up the stairs.”“Well, then the doorman was wrong,” Esmé said. “But let’s not have any more ofthis somniferous conversation. Jerome, put them right to bed.”The Baudelaires looked at one another. They didn’t think the conversation was atall somniferous, a fancy word for something that is so boring it puts you to sleep.Despite their exhausting climb, the children did not feel the least bit tired when theywere talking about Gunther’s whereabouts. The idea that he had managed todisappear as mysteriously as he had appeared made them too anxious to be sleepy.But the three siblings knew that they would not be able to convince the Squalors todiscuss it any further, any more than they had been able to convince them thatGunther was Count Olaf instead of an in auctioneer, so they said good night to Esméand followed Jerome across three ballrooms, past a breakfast room, through twositting rooms, and eventually to their own bedrooms.“Good night, children,” Jerome said, and smiled. “The three of you will probablysleep like logs, after all that climbing. I don’t mean that you resemble parts of trees,of course. I just mean that once you get into bed, I bet you’ll fall right asleep andwon’t move any more than a log does.”“We know what you meant, Jerome,” Klaus replied, “and I hope you’re right.Good night.”Jerome smiled at the children, and the children smiled back, and then looked ateach other once more before walking into their bedrooms and shutting the doorsbehind them. The children knew that they would not sleep like logs, unless therewere certain logs that tossed and turned all night wondering things. The siblingswondered where Gunther was hiding, and how he had managed to find them, andwhat terrible treachery he was dreaming up. They wondered where the Quagmiretriplets were, since Gunther had time to prey on the Baudelaires. And they wonderedwhat V.F.D. could mean, and if it would help them with Gunther if they knew.The Baudelaires tossed and turned, and wondered about all these things, and as itgrew later and later they felt less and less like logs and more and more like childrenin a sinister and mysterious plot, spending one of the least somniferous nights of theiryoung lives.Violet watched the first few rays of sunlight brighten her sturdy, tool-freeworkbench, and tried to imagine what sort of evil plan Gunther had cooked up. Klauswatched the dawn’s rays make shifting shapes on the wall that separated his roomfrom the Squalor library, and racked his brain for a way Gunther could have vanishedinto thin air. And Sunny watched the emerging sun illuminate all of the unbiteablebaby toys, and tried to figure out if they had time to discuss the matter togetherbefore the Squalors came to wake them up.This last thing was fairly easy to figure out. The littlest Baudelaire crawled out herbedroom door, fetched her brother, and opened Violet’s door to find her out of bedand sitting at her wooden workbench with her hair tied up in a ribbon to keep it out ofher eyes. “Tageb,” Sunny said.“Good morning,” Violet replied. “I thought it might help me think if I tied my hairup, and sat at my workbench, as if I were inventing something. But I haven’t figuredout a thing.”“It’s terrible enough that Olaf has shown up again,” Klaus said, “and that we haveto call him Gunther. But we don’t have the faintest clue what he’s planning.”“Well, he wants to get his hands on our fortune, that’s for sure,” Violet said.“Klofy,” Sunny said, which meant “Of course. But how?”“Maybe it has something to do with the In Auction,” Klaus guessed. “Why wouldhe disguise himself as an auctioneer if it weren’t part of his plan?”Sunny yawned, and Violet reached down and lifted up her sister so she could sit onher lap. “Do you think he’s going to try to auction us off?” Violet asked, as Sunnyleaned forward to nibble on the workbench in thought. “He could get one of thoseterrible assistants of his to bid higher and higher for us until he won, and then we’dbe in his clutches, just like the poor Quagmires.”“But Esmé said it’s against the law to auction off children,” Klaus pointed out.Sunny stopped chewing on the workbench and looked at her siblings. “Nolano?”she asked, which meant something like “Do you think the Squalors are workingtogether with Gunther?”“I don’t think so,” Violet said. “They’ve been very kind to us—well, Jerome has,at least- -and anyway, they don’t need the Baudelaire fortune. They have so muchmoney already.”“But not much common sense,” Klaus said unhappily. “Gunther fooled themcompletely, and all it took were some black boots, a pinstripe suit, and a monocle.”“Plus, he fooled them into thinking that he had left,” Violet said, “but the doormanwas certain that he hadn’t.”“Gunther’s got me fooled, too,” Klaus said. “How could he have left without thedoorman noticing?”“I don’t know,” Violet said miserably. “The whole thing is like a jigsaw puzzle, butthere are too many missing pieces to solve it.”“Did I hear someone say ‘jigsaw puzzles’?” Jerome asked. “If you’re looking forsome jigsaw puzzles, I think there are a few in the cabinet in one of the sitting rooms,or maybe in one of the living rooms, I can’t remember which.”The Baudelaires looked up and saw their guardian standing in the doorway ofViolet’s bedroom with a smile on his face and a silver tray in his hands.“Good morning, Jerome,” Klaus said. “And thank you, but we’re not looking for ajigsaw puzzle. Violet was just using an expression. We’re trying to figure somethingout.”“Well, you’ll never figure anything out on an empty stomach,” Jerome replied. “Ihave some breakfast here for you: three poached eggs and some nice whole wheattoast.”“Thank you,” Violet said. “It’s very nice of you to fix us breakfast.”“You’re very welcome,” Jerome replied. “Esmé has an important meeting with theKing of Arizona today, so we have the whole day to ourselves. I thought we couldwalk across town to the Clothing District, and take your pinstripe suits to a goodtailor. There’s no use having those suits if they don’t fit you properly.”“Knilliu!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “That’s very considerate of you.”“I don’t know what ‘Knilliu!’ means,” Esmé said, walking into the bedroom, “andI don’t care, but neither will you when you hear the fantastic news I just received onthe phone! Aqueous martinis are out, and parsley soda is in!”“Parsley soda?” Jerome said, frowning. “That sounds terrible. I think I’ll stick toaqueous martinis.”“You’re not listening,” Esmé said. “Parsley soda is in now. You’ll have to go outright now and buy a few crates of it.”“But I was going to take the children’s suits to the tailor today,” Jerome said.“Then you’ll have to change your plans,” Esmé said impatiently. “The childrenalready have clothing, but we don’t have any parsley soda.”“Well, I don’t want to argue,” Jerome said.“Then don’t argue,” Esmé replied. “And don’t take the children with you, either.The Beverage District is no place for young people. Well, we’d better go, Jerome. Idon’t want to be late for His Arizona Highness.”“But don’t you want to spend some time with the Baudelaires before the work daybegins?” Jerome asked.“Not particularly,” Esmé said, and looked briefly at her watch. “I’ll just say goodmorning to them. Good morning. Well, let’s go, Jerome.”Jerome opened his mouth as if he had something else to say, but Esmé was alreadymarching out of the bedroom, so he just shrugged. “Have a good day,” he said to thechildren. “There’s food in all of our kitchens, so you can make yourselves lunch. I’msorry that our plans didn’t work out after all.”“Hurry up!” Esmé called, from down the hallway, and Jerome ran out of the room.The children heard their guardians’ footsteps grow fainter and fainter as they madetheir way to the front door.“Well,” Klaus said, when they couldn’t hear them anymore, “what shall we dotoday?”“Vinfrey,” Sunny said.“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “We’d better spend the day figuring out whatGunther’s up to.”“How can we know what he’s up to,” Klaus said, “when we don’t even knowwhere he is?”“Well, we’d better find out,” Violet said. “He already had the unfair advantage ofthe element of surprise, and we don’t want him to have the unfair advantage of agood hiding place.”“This penthouse has lots of good hiding places,” Klaus said. “There are so manyrooms.”“Koundix,” Sunny said, which meant something like “But he can’t be in thepenthouse. Esmé saw him leave.”“Well, maybe he sneaked back in,” Violet said, “and is lurking around right now.”The Baudelaires looked at one another, and then at Violet’s doorway, halfexpecting to see Gunther standing there looking at them with his shiny, shiny eyes.“If he was lurking around here,” Klaus said, “wouldn’t he have grabbed us theinstant the Squalors went out?”“Maybe,” Violet said. “If that was his plan.”The Baudelaires looked at the empty doorway again.“I’m scared,” Klaus said.“Ecrif!” Sunny agreed.“I’m scared, too,” Violet admitted, “but if he’s here in the penthouse, we’d betterfind out. We’ll have to search the entire place and see if we find him.”“I don’t want to find him,” Klaus said. “Let’s run downstairs and call Mr. Poeinstead.”“Mr. Poe is in a helicopter, looking for the Quagmire triplets,” Violet said. “By thetime he returns it may be too late. We have to figure out what Gunther is up to—notonly for our sake, but for the sake of Isadora and Duncan.”At the mention of the Quagmire triplets, all three Baudelaires felt a stiffening oftheir resolve, a phrase which here means “realized that they had to search thepenthouse for Gunther, even though it was a scary thing to do.” The childrenremembered how hard Duncan and Isadora had worked to save them from Olaf’sclutches back at Prufrock Preparatory School , doing absolutely everything theycould to help the Baudelaires escape Olaf’s evil plan. The Quagmires had sneakedout in the middle of the night and put themselves in grave danger. The Quagmireshad put on disguises, risking their lives in order to try to fool Olaf. And theQuagmires had done a lot of researching, finding out the secret of V.F.D.—althoughthey had been snatched away before they could reveal the secret to the Baudelaires.Violet, Klaus, and Sunny thought about the two brave and loyal triplets, and knewthey had to be just as brave and loyal, now that they had an opportunity to save theirfriends.“You’re right,” Klaus said to Violet, and Sunny nodded in agreement. “We have tosearch the penthouse. But it’s such a complicated place. I get lost just trying to findthe bathroom at night. How can we search without getting lost?”“Hansel!” Sunny said.The two older Baudelaires looked at one another. It was rare that Sunny saidsomething that her siblings couldn’t understand, but this seemed to be one of thosetimes.“Do you mean we should draw a map?” Violet asked.Sunny shook her head. “Gretel!” she said.“That’s two times we don’t understand you,” Klaus said. “Hansel and Gretel?What does that mean?”“Oh!” Violet cried suddenly. “Hansel and Gretel means Hansel and Gretel—youknow, those two dim-witted children in that fairy tale.”“Of course,” Klaus said. “That brother and sister who insist on wandering aroundthe woods by themselves.”“Leaving a trail of bread crumbs,” Violet said, picking up a piece of toast from thebreakfast tray Jerome had brought them, “so they don’t get lost. We’ll crumble upthis toast and leave a few crumbs in every room so we know we’ve already searchedit. Good thinking, Sunny.”“Blized,” Sunny said modestly, which meant something like “It’s nothing,” andI’m sorry to say she turned out to be right. For as the children wandered frombedroom to living room to dining room to breakfast room to snack room to sittingroom to standing room to ballroom to bathroom to kitchen to those rooms thatseemed to have no purpose at all, and back again, leaving trails of toast crumbswherever they went, Gunther was nowhere to be found. They looked in the closets ofeach bedroom, and the cabinets in each kitchen, and even pulled back the showercurtains in each bathroom to see if Gunther was hiding behind them. They saw racksof clothes in the closets, cans of food in the cabinets, and bottles of cream rinse in theshower, but the children had to admit, as the morning ended and the Baudelaires’ owntrail of crumbs led them back to Violet’s room, that they had found nothing.“Where in the world can Gunther be hiding?” Klaus asked. “We’ve lookedeverywhere.”“Maybe he was moving around,” Violet said. “He could have been in a roombehind us all the time, jumping into the hiding places we already checked.”“I don’t think so,” Klaus said. “We surely would have heard him if he wasclomping around in those silly boots. I don’t think he’s been in this penthouse sincelast night. Esmé insists that he left the apartment, but the doorman insists that hedidn’t. It doesn’t add up.”“I’ve been thinking that over,” Violet said. “I think it might add up. Esmé insiststhat he left the penthouse. The doorman insists that he didn’t leave the building. Thatmeans he could be in any of the other apartments at 667 Dark Avenue .”“You’re right,” Klaus said. “Maybe he rented one of the apartments on anotherfloor, as a headquarters for his latest scheme.”“Or maybe one of the apartments belongs to someone in his theater troupe,” Violetsaid, and counted those terrible people on her fingers “There’s the hook-handed man,or the bald man with the long nose, or that one who looks like neither a man nor awoman.”“Or maybe those two dreadful powder-faced women—the ones who helped kidnapthe Quagmires—are roommates,” Klaus said.“Co,” Sunny said, which meant something like “Or maybe Gunther managed totrick one of the other residents of 667 Dark Avenue into letting him into theirapartment, and then he tied them up and is sitting there hiding in the kitchen.”“If we find Gunther in the building,” Violet said, “then at least the Squalors willknow that he is a liar. Even if they don’t believe he’s really Count Olaf, they’ll bevery suspicious if he’s caught hiding in another apartment.”“But how are we going to find out?” Klaus asked. “We can’t simply knock ondoors and ask to see each apartment.”“We don’t have to see each apartment,” Violet said. “We can listen to them.”Klaus and Sunny looked at their sister in confusion for a moment, and then beganto grin. “You’re right!” Klaus said. “If we walk down the stairs, listening at everydoor, we may be able to tell if Gunther is inside.”“Lorigo!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “What are we waiting for? Let’s go!”“Not so fast,” Klaus said. “It’s a long trip down all those stairs, and we’ve alreadydone a lot of walking—and crawling, in your case, Sunny. We’d better change intoour sturdiest shoes, and bring along some extra pairs of socks. That way we can avoidblisters.”“And we should bring some water,” Violet said, “so we won’t get thirsty.”“Snack!” Sunny shrieked, and the Baudelaire orphans went to work, changing outof their pajamas and into appropriate stair-climbing outfits, putting on their sturdiestshoes, and tucking pairs of extra socks into their pockets. After Violet and Klausmade sure that Sunny had tied her shoes correctly, the children left their bedroomsand followed their crumbs down the hallway, through a living room, past twobedrooms, down another hallway, and into the nearest kitchen, sticking together thewhole time so they wouldn’t lose one another in the enormous penthouse. In thekitchen they found some grapes, a box of crackers, and a jar of apple butter, as wellas a bottle of water that the Squalors used for making aqueous martinis but that theBaudelaires would use to quench their thirst during their long climb. Finally, they leftthe penthouse apartment, walked past the sliding elevator doors, and stood at the topof the curving stairway, feeling more like they were about to go mountain climbingthan downstairs.“We’ll have to tiptoe,” Violet said, “so that we can hear Gunther, but he can’t hearus.”“And we should probably whisper,” Klaus whispered, “so that we can eavesdrop,without people eavesdropping on us.”“Philavem,” Sunny said, which meant “Let’s get started,” and the Baudelaires gotstarted, tiptoeing down the first curve of the stairway and listening at the door of theapartment directly below the penthouse. For a few seconds, they heard nothing, butthen, very clearly, they heard a woman talking on the phone.“Well, that’s not Gunther,” Violet whispered. “He’s not a woman.”Klaus and Sunny nodded, and the children tiptoed down the next curve to the floorbelow. As soon as they reached the next door, it flung open to reveal a very short manin a pinstripe suit. “See you later, Avery!” he called, and, with a nod to the children,shut the door and began walking down the stairs.“That’s not Gunther either,” Klaus whispered. “He’s not that short, and he’s notcalling himself Avery.”Violet and Sunny nodded, and the children tiptoed down the next curve to the floorbelow the floor below. They stopped and listened at this door, and heard a man’svoice call out, “I’m going to take a shower, Mother,” and Sunny shook her head.“Mineak,” she whispered, which meant “Gunther would never take a shower. He’sfilthy.”Violet and Klaus nodded, and the children tiptoed down the next curve, and thenthe next, and the next and plenty more after that, listening at each door, whisperingbriefly to one another, and moving on. As they walked farther and farther down thestairway, they began to grow tired, as they always did when making their way to orfrom the Squalors’ apartment, but this time they had additional hardships as well. Thetips of their toes grew tired from all that tiptoeing. Their throats grew hoarse from allthat whispering. Their ears were aching from listening at all those doors, and theirchins drooped from nodding in agreement that nothing they heard sounded likeGunther. The morning wore on, and the Baudelaires tiptoed and listened, whisperedand nodded, and by the time they reached the lobby of the building, it seemed thatevery physical feature of the Baudelaire orphans was suffering in some way from thelong climb.“That was exhausting,” Violet said, sitting down on the bottom step and passingaround the bottle of water. “Exhausting and fruitless.”“Grape!” Sunny said.“No, no, Sunny,” Violet said. “I didn’t mean we didn’t have any fruit. I just meantwe didn’t learn anything. Do you think we missed a door?”“No,” Klaus said, shaking his head and passing around the crackers. “I made sure.I even counted the number of floors this time, so we could double-check them on theway up. It’s not forty-eight, or eighty-four. It’s sixty-six, which happens to be theaverage of those two numbers. Sixty-six floors and sixty-six doors and not a peepfrom Gunther behind any of them.”“I don’t understand it,” Violet said miserably. “If he’s not in the penthouse, and he’snot in any of the other apartments, and he hasn’t left the building, where could he be?”“Maybe he is in the penthouse,” Klaus said, “and we just didn’t spot him.”“Bishuy,” Sunny said, which meant “Or maybe he is in one of the otherapartments, and we just didn’t hear him.”“Or maybe he has left the building,” Violet said, spreading apple butter on acracker and giving it to Sunny. “We can ask the doorman. There he is.”Sure enough, the doorman was at his usual post by the door, and was just noticingthethree exhausted children sitting on the bottom step.“Hello there,” he said, walking up to them and smiling from beneath the wide brimof his hat. Sticking out of his long sleeves were a small starfish carved out of wood,and a bottle of glue. “I was just going to put up this ocean decoration when I thoughtI heard someone walking down the stairs.”“We just thought we’d have lunch here in the lobby,” Violet said, not wanting toadmit that she and her siblings had been listening at doors, “and then hike back up.”“I’m sorry, but that means that you’re not allowed back up to the penthouse,” thedoorman said, and shrugged his shoulders inside his oversized coat. “You’ll have tostay here in the lobby. After all, my instructions were very clear: You were notsupposed to return to the Squalor penthouse until the guest left. I let you go up lastnight because Mr. Squalor said that your guest was probably on his way down, but hewas wrong, because Gunther never showed up in the lobby.”“You mean Gunther still hasn’t left the building?” Violet asked.“Of course not,” the doorman said. “I’m here all day and all night, and I haven’tseen him leave. I promise you that Gunther never walked out of this door.”“When do you sleep?” Klaus asked.“I drink a lot of coffee,” the doorman answered.“It just doesn’t make any sense,” Violet said.“Sure it does,” the doorman said. “Coffee contains caffeine, which is a chemicalstimulant. Stimulants keep people awake.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 6 - TheErsatz Elevator“I didn’t mean the part about the coffee,” Violet said. “I meant the part aboutGunther. Esmé—that’s Mrs. Squalor—is positive that he left the penthouse last night,while we were at the restaurant. But you are equally positive that he didn’t leave thebuilding. It’s a problem that doesn’t seem to have a solution.”“Every problem has a solution,” the doorman said. “At least, that’s what a closeassociate of mine says. Sometimes it just takes a long time to find the solution—evenif it’s right in front of your nose.”The doorman smiled at the Baudelaires, who watched him walk over to the slidingelevator doors. He opened the bottle of glue and made a small globby patch on one ofthe doors, and then held the wooden starfish against the glue in order to attach it.Gluing things to a door is never a very exciting thing to watch, and after a moment,Violet and Sunny turned their attention back to their lunch and the problem ofGunther’s disappearance. Only Klaus kept looking in the direction of the doorman ashe continued to decorate the lobby. The middle Baudelaire looked and looked andlooked, and kept on looking even when the glue dried and the doorman went back tohis post at the door. Klaus kept facing the ocean decoration that was now firmlyattached to one of the elevator doors, because he realized now, after a tiring morningof searching the penthouse and an exhausting afternoon of eavesdropping on thestairs, that the doorman had been right. Klaus didn’t move his face one bit, becausehe realized that the solution was, indeed, right in front of his nose.elevators at a time like this?“ And both the young Baudelaire women were very wellacquainted with their brother, Klaus, and were accustomed to his idiosyncrasy of notpaying a bit of attention to his surroundings when he was thinking very hard aboutsomething, as he was clearly doing as the afternoon wore on. The doorman continued toinsist that the Baudelaire orphans could not return to the penthouse, so the three childrensat on the bottom step of 667 Dark Avenue’s lengthy stairwell, ate food they had broughtdown with them, and rested their weary legs, which had not felt this sore since Olaf, in aprevious disguise, had forced them to run hundreds and hundreds of laps as part of hisscheme to steal their fortune. A good thing to do when one is sitting, eating, and resting isto have a conversation, and Violet and Sunny were both eager to converse about Gunther’smysterious appearance and disappearance, and what they might be able to do about it, butKlaus scarcely participated in the discussion. Only when his sisters asked him a directquestion, such as ”But where in the world could Gunther be?“ or ”What do you thinkGunther is planning?“ or ”Topoing?” did Klaus mumble a response, and Violet and Sunnysoon figured out that Klaus must be thinking very hard about something, so they left himto his idiosyncrasy and talked quietly to each other until the doorman ushered Jerome andEsmé into the lobby.“Hello, Jerome,” Violet said. “Hello, Esmé.”“Tretchev!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Welcome home!”Klaus mumbled something.“What a pleasant surprise to see you all the way down here!” Jerome said. “It’ll beeasier to climb all those stairs if we have you three charming people for company.”“And you can carry the crates of parsley soda that are stacked outside,” Esmé said.“Then I don’t have to worry about breaking one of my fingernails.”“We’d be happy to carry big crates up all those stairs,” Violet lied, “but thedoorman says we’re not allowed back in the penthouse.”“Not allowed?” Jerome frowned. “Whatever do you mean?”“You gave me specific instructions not to let the children back in, Mrs. Squalor,”the doorman said. “At least, until Gunther left the building. And he still hasn’t left.”“Don’t be absurd,” Esmé said. “He left the penthouse last night. What kind ofdoorman are you?”“Actually, I’m an actor,” the doorman said, “but I was still able to follow yourinstructions.”Esmé gave the doorman a stern look she probably used when giving peoplefinancial advice. “Your instructions have changed,” she said. “Your new instructionsare to let me and my orphans go directly to my seventy-one-bedroom apartment. Gotit, buster?”“Got it,” the doorman replied meekly.“Good,” Esmé said, and then turned to the children. “Hurry up, kids,” she said.“Violet and what’s-his-name can each take a crate of soda, and Jerome will take therest. I guess the baby won’t be very helpful, but that’s to be expected. Let’s get amove on.”The Baudelaires got a move on, and in a few moments the three children and thetwo adults were trekking up the sixty-six-floor-long staircase. The youngsters werehoping that Esmé might help carry the heavy crates of soda, but the city’s sixth mostimportant financial advisor was much more interested in telling them all about hermeeting with the King of Arizona than in buttering up any orphans. “He told me along list of new things that are in,” Esmé squealed. “For one thing, grapefruits. Alsobright blue cereal bowls, billboards with photographs of weasels on them, and plentyof other things that I will list for you right now.” All the way up to the penthouse,Esmé listed the new in items she had learned about from His Arizona Highness, andthe two Baudelaire sisters listened carefully the whole time. They did not listen verycarefully to Esmé‘s very dull speech, of course, but they listened closely at eachcurve of the staircase, doublechecking their eavesdropping to hear if Gunther wasindeed behind one of the apartment doors. Neither Violet nor Sunny heard anythingsuspicious, and they would have asked Klaus, in a low whisper so the Squalorscouldn’t hear them, if he had heard any sort of Gunther noise, but they could tell fromhis idiosyncrasy that he was still thinking very hard about something and wasn’tlistening to the noises in the other apartments any more than he was listening toautomobile tires, cross-country skiing, movies with waterfalls in them, and the rest ofthe in things Esmé was rattling off.“Oh, and magenta wallpaper!” Esmé said, as the Baudelaires and the Squalorsfinished a dinner of in foods washed down with parsley soda, which tasted evennastier than it sounds. “And triangular picture frames, and very fancy doilies, andgarbage cans with letters of the alphabet stenciled all over them, and—”“Excuse me,” Klaus said, and his sisters jumped a little bit in surprise. It was thefirst time Klaus had spoken in anything but a mumble since they had been down inthe lobby. “I don’t mean to interrupt, but my sisters and I are very tired. May we beexcused to go to bed?”“Of course,” Jerome said. “You should get plenty of rest for the auction tomorrow.I’ll take you to the Veblen Hall at ten-thirty sharp, so—”“No you won’t,” Esmé said. “Yellow paper clips are in, Jerome, so as soon as thesun rises, you’ll have to go right to the Stationery District and get some. I’ll bring thechildren.”“Well, I don’t want to argue,” Jerome said, shrugging and giving the children asmall smile. “Esmé, don’t you want to tuck the children in?”“Nope,” Esmé answered, frowning as she sipped her parsley soda. “Foldingblankets over three wriggling children sounds like a lot more trouble than it’s worth.See you tomorrow, kids.”“I hope so,” Violet said, and yawned. She knew that Klaus was asking to beexcused so he could tell her and Sunny what he had been thinking about, but afterlying awake the previous night, searching the entire penthouse, and tiptoeing downall those stairs, the eldest Baudelaire was actually quite tired. “Good night, Esmé.Good night, Jerome.”“Good night, children,” Jerome said. “And please, if you get up in the middle ofthe night and have a snack, try not to spill your food. There seem to be a lot ofcrumbs around the penthouse lately.”The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another and smiled at their shared secret.“Sorry about that,” Violet said. “Tomorrow we’ll do the vacuuming if you want.”“Vacuum cleaners!” Esmé said. “I knew there was something else he told me wasin. Oh, and cotton balls, and anything with chocolate sprinkles on it, and …”The Baudelaires did not want to stick around for any more of Esmé‘s in list, sothey brought their plates into the nearest kitchen, and walked down a hallwaydecorated with the antlers of various animals, through a sitting room, past fivebathrooms, took a left at another kitchen, and eventually made their way to Violet’sbedroom.“O.K., Klaus,” Violet said to her brother, when the three children had found acomfortable corner for their discussion. “I know you’ve been thinking very hardabout something, because you’ve been doing that unique habit of yours where youdon’t pay a bit of attention to your surroundings.”“Unique habits like that are called idiosyncrasies,” Klaus said.“Stiblo!” Sunny cried, which meant “We can improve our vocabulary later—tell uswhat’s on your mind!”“Sorry, Sunny,” Klaus said. “It’s just that I think I’ve figured out where Gunthermight be hiding, but I’m not positive. First, Violet, I need to ask you something.What do you know about elevators?”“Elevators?” Violet said. “Quite a bit, actually. My friend Ben once gave me someelevator blueprints for my birthday, and I studied them very closely. They weredestroyed in the fire, of course, but I remember that an elevator is essentially aplatform, surrounded by an enclosure, that moves along the vertical axis via anendlessly looped belt and a series of ropes. It’s controlled by a push-button consolethat regulates an electromagnetic braking system so the transport sequence can behalted at any access point the passenger desires. In other words, it’s a box that movesup or down, depending on where you want to go. But so what?”“Freijip?” Sunny asked, which, as you know, was her idiosyncratic way of saying“How can you think of elevators at a time like this?”“Well, it was the doorman who got me thinking about elevators,” Klaus said.Remember when he said that sometimes the solution is right under your nose? Well,he was gluing that wooden starfish to the elevator doors right when he said that.”“I noticed that, too,” Violet said. “It looked a little ugly.”“It did look ugly,” Klaus agreed. “But that’s not what I mean. I got to thinkingabout the elevator doors. Outside the door to this penthouse, there are two pairs ofelevator doors. But on every other floor, there’s only one pair.”“That’s true,” Violet said, “and that’s odd, too, now that I think of it. That meansone elevator can stop only on the top floor.”“Yelliverc!” Sunny said, which meant “That second elevator is almost completelyuseless!”“I don’t think it’s useless,” Klaus said, “because I don’t think the elevator is reallythere.”“Not really there?” Violet asked. “But that would just leave an empty elevatorshaft!”“Middiow?” Sunny asked.“An elevator shaft is the path an elevator uses to move up and down,” Violetexplained to her sister. “It’s sort of like a hallway, except it goes up and down, insteadof side to side.”“And a hallway,” Klaus said, “could lead to a hiding place.”“Aha!” Sunny cried.“Aha is right,” Klaus agreed. “Just think, if he used an empty elevator shaft insteadof the stairs, nobody would ever know where he was. I don’t think the elevator hasbeen shut down because it’s out. I think it’s where Gunther is hiding.”“But why is he hiding? What is he up to?” Violet asked.“That’s the part we still don’t know,” Klaus admitted, “but I bet you the answerscan be found behind those sliding doors. Let’s take a look at what’s behind thesecond pair of elevator doors. If we see the ropes and things you were describing,then we know it’s a real elevator. But if we don’t—”“Then we know we’re on the right track,” Violet finished for him. “Let’s go rightthis minute.”“If we go right this minute,” Klaus said, “we’ll have do it very quietly. TheSqualors are not going to let three children poke around an elevator shaft.”“It’s worth the risk, if it helps us figure out Gunther’s plan,” Violet said. I’m sorryto say that it turned out not to be worth the risk at all, but of course the Baudelaireshad no way of knowing that, so they merely nodded in agreement and tiptoed towardthe penthouse’s exit, peeking into each room before they went through to see if theSqualors were anywhere to be found. But Jerome and Esmé were apparentlyspending the evening in some room in another part of the apartment, because theBaudelaires didn’t see hide or hair of them—the expression “hide or hair of them”here means “even a glimpse of the city’s sixth most important financial advisor, orher husband”—on their way to the front door. They hoped the door would not squeakas they pushed it open, but apparently silent hinges were in, because the Baudelairesmade no noise at all as they left the apartment and tiptoed over to the two pairs ofsliding elevator doors.“How do we know which elevator is which?” Violet whispered. “The pairs ofdoors look exactly alike.”“I hadn’t thought of that,” Klaus replied. “If one of them is really a secretpassageway, there must be some way to tell.”Sunny tugged on the legs of her siblings’ pants, which was a good way to get theirattention without making any noise, and when Violet and Klaus looked down to seewhat their sister wanted, she answered them just as silently. Without speaking, shereached out one of her tiny fingers and pointed to the buttons that were next to eachset of sliding doors. Next to one pair of doors, there was a single button, with anarrow printed on it pointing down. But next to the second pair of doors, there weretwo buttons: one with a Down arrow, and one with an Up arrow. The three childrenlooked at the buttons and considered.“Why would you need an Up button,” Violet whispered, “if you were already onthe top floor?” and without waiting for an answer to her question, she reached outand pressed it. With a quiet, slithery sound, the sliding doors opened, and the childrenleaned carefully into the doorway, and gasped at what they saw.“Lakry,” Sunny said, which meant something like “There are no ropes.”“Not only are there no ropes,” Violet said. “There’s no endlessly looped belt,pushbutton console, or electromagnetic braking system. I don’t even see an enclosedplatform.”“I knew it,” Klaus said, in hushed excitement. “I knew the elevator was ersatz!”“Ersatz” is a word that describes a situation in which one thing is pretending to beanother, the way the secret passageway the Baudelaires were looking at had beenpretending to be an elevator, but the word might as well have meant “the mostterrifying place the Baudelaires had ever seen.” As the children stood in the doorwayand peered into the elevator shaft, it was as if they were standing on the edge of anenormous cliff, looking down at the dizzying depths below them. But what madethese depths terrifying, as well as dizzying, was that they were so very dark. Theshaft was more like a pit than a passageway, leading straight down into a blacknessthe likes of which the youngsters had never seen. It was darker than any night hadever been, even on nights when there was no moon. It was darker than Dark Avenuehad been on the day of their arrival. It was darker than a pitch-black panther, coveredin tar, eating black licorice at the very bottom of the deepest part of the Black Sea.The Baudelaire orphans had never dreamed that anything could be this dark, even intheir scariest nightmares, and as they stood at the edge of this pit of unimaginableblackness, they felt as if the elevator shaft would simply swallow them up and theywould never see a speck of light again.“We have to go down there,” Violet said, scarcely believing the words she wassaying.“I’m not sure I have the courage to go down there,” Klaus said. “Look how dark itis. It’s terrifying.”“Prollit,” Sunny said, which meant “But not as terrifying as what Gunther will doto us, if we don’t find out his plan.”“Why don’t we just go tell the Squalors about this?” Klaus asked. “Then they cango down the secret passageway.”“We don’t have time to argue with the Squalors,” Violet said. “Every minute wewaste is a minute the Quagmires are spending in Gunther’s clutches.”“But how are we going to go down?” Klaus asked. “I don’t see a ladder, or astaircase. I don’t see anything at all.”“We’re going to have to climb down,” Violet said, “on a rope. But where can wefind rope at this time of night? Most hardware stores close at six.”“The Squalors must have some rope somewhere in their penthouse,” Klaus said.“Let’s split up and find some. We’ll meet back here in fifteen minutes.”Violet and Sunny agreed, and the Baudelaires stepped carefully away from theelevator shaft and tiptoed back into the Squalor penthouse. They felt like burglars asthey split up and began searching the apartment, although there have been only fiveburglars in the history of robbery who have specialized in rope. All five of theseburglars were caught and sent to prison, which is why scarcely any people lock uptheir rope for safekeeping, but to their frustration, the Baudelaires learned that theirguardians didn’t lock up their ropes at all, for the simple reason that they didn’t haveany.“I couldn’t find any ropes at all,” Violet admitted, as she rejoined her siblings.“But I did find these extension cords, which might work.”“I took these curtain pulls down from some of the windows,” Klaus said. “They’rea little bit like ropes, so I thought they might be useful.”“Armani,” Sunny offered, holding up an armful of Jerome’s neckties.“Well, we have some ersatz ropes,” Violet said, “for our climb down the ersatzelevator. Let’s tie them all together with the Devil’s Tongue.”“The Devil’s Tongue?” Klaus asked.“It’s a knot,” Violet explained. “It was invented by female Finnish pirates in thefifteenth century. I used it to make my grappling hook, when Olaf had Sunny trappedin that cage, dangling from his tower room, and it’ll work here as well. We need tomake as long a rope as possible—for all we know, the passageway goes all the way tothe bottom floor of the building.”“It looks like it goes all the way to the center of the earth,” Klaus said. “We’vespent so much of our time trying to escape from Count Olaf. I can’t believe that nowwe’re trying to find him.”“Me neither,” Violet agreed. “If it weren’t for the Quagmires, I wouldn’t go downthere at all.”“Bangemp,” Sunny reminded her siblings. She meant something along the lines of“If it weren’t for the Quagmires, we would have been in his clutches a long timeago,” and the two older Baudelaires nodded in agreement. Violet showed her siblingshow to make the Devil’s Tongue, and the three children hurriedly tied the extensioncords to the curtain pulls, and the curtain pulls to the neckties, and the last necktie tothe sturdiest thing they could find, which was the doorknob of the Squalor penthouse.Violet checked her siblings’ handiwork and finally gave the whole rope a satisfiedtug.“I think this should hold us,” she said. “I only hope it’s long enough.”“Why don’t we drop the rope down the shaft,” Klaus said, “and listen to see if ithits the bottom? Then we’ll know for sure.”“Good idea,” Violet replied, and walked to the edge of the passageway. She threwdown the edge of the furthermost extension cord, and the children watched as itdisappeared into the blackness, dragging the rest of the Baudelaires’ line with it. Thecoils of cord and pull and necktie unwound quickly, like a long snake waking up andslithering down into the shaft. It slithered and slithered and slithered, and the childrenleaned forward as far as they dared and listened as hard as they could. Finally, theyheard a faint, faint clink!, as if the extension cord had hit a piece of metal, and thethree orphans looked at one another. The thought of climbing down all that distancein the dark, on an ersatz rope they had fashioned themselves, made them want to turnaround and run all the way back to their beds and pull the blankets over their heads.The siblings stood together at the edge of this dark and terrible place and wondered ifthey really dared to begin the climb. The Baudelaire rope had made it to the bottom.But would the Baudelaire children?“Are you ready?” Klaus asked finally.“No,” Sunny answered.“Me neither,” Violet said, “but if we wait until we’re ready we’ll be waiting for therest of our lives. Let’s go.”Violet tugged one last time on the rope, and carefully, carefully lowered herselfdown the passageway. Klaus and Sunny watched her disappear into the darkness as ifsome huge, hungry creature had eaten her up. “Come on,” they heard her whisper,from the blackness. “It’s O.K.”Klaus blew on his hands, and Sunny blew on hers, and the two youngerBaudelaires followed their sister into the utter darkness of the elevator shaft, only todiscover that Violet had not told the truth. It was not O.K. It was not half O.K. It wasnot even one twenty-seventh O.K. The climb down the shadowy passageway felt likefalling into a deep hole at the bottom of a deep pit on the bottom floor of a dungeonthat was deep underground, and it was the least O.K. situation the Baudelaires hadever encountered. Their hands gripping the line was the only thing they saw, becauseeven as their eyes adjusted to the darkness, they were afraid to look anywhere else,particularly down. The distant clink! at the bottom of the line was the only soundthey heard, because the Baudelaires were too scared to speak. And the only thingthey felt was sheer terror, as deep and as dark as the passageway itself, a terror soprofound that I have slept with four night-lights ever since I visited 667 Dark Avenueand saw this deep pit that the Baudelaires climbed down. But I also saw, during myvisit, what the Baudelaire orphans saw when they reached the bottom after climbingfor more than three terrifying hours. By then, their eyes had adjusted to the darkness,and they could see what the bottom of their line was hitting, when it was making thatfaint clinking sound. The edge of the farthest extension cord was bumping up againsta piece of metal, all right—a metal lock. The lock was secured around a metal door,and the metal door was attached to a series of metal bars that made up a rusty metalcage. By the time my research led me to this passageway, the cage was empty, andhad been empty for a very long time. But it was not empty when the Baudelairesreached it. As they arrived at the bottom of this deep and terrifying place, theBaudelaire orphans looked into the cage and saw the huddled and trembling figuresof Duncan and Isadora Quagmire.I’m dreaming,“ Duncan Quagmire said. His voice was a hoarse whisper of uttershock. ”I must be dreaming.”“But how can you be dreaming,” Isadora asked him, “if I’m having the samedream?”“I once read about a journalist,” Duncan whispered, “who was reporting on a warand was imprisoned by the enemy for three years. Each morning, she looked out hercell window and thought she saw her grandparents coming to rescue her. But theyweren’t really there. It was a hallucination.”“I remember reading about a poet,” Isadora said, “who would see six lovelymaidens in his kitchen on Tuesday nights, but his kitchen was really empty. It was aphantasm.”“No,” Violet said, and reached her hand between the bars of the cage. TheQuagmire triplets shrank back into the cage’s far corner, as if Violet were a poisonousspider instead of a long-lost friend. “It’s not a hallucination. It’s me, VioletBaudelaire.”“And it’s really Klaus,” Klaus said. “I’m not a phantasm.”“Sunny!” Sunny said.The Baudelaire orphans blinked in the darkness, straining their eyes to see as muchas possible. Now that they were no longer dangling from the end of a rope, they wereable to get a good look at their gloomy surroundings. Their long climb ended in atiny, filthy room with nothing in it but the rusty cage that the extension cord hadclinked against, but the Baudelaires saw that the passageway continued with a longhallway, just as shadowy as the elevator shaft, that twisted and turned away into thedark. The children also got a good look at the Quagmires, and that view was no lessgloomy. They were dressed in tattered rags, and their faces were so smeared with dirtthat the Baudelaires might not have recognized them, if the two triplets had not beenholding the notebooks they took with them wherever they went. But it was not justthe dirt on their faces, or the clothes on their bodies, that made the Quagmires look sodifferent. It was the look in their eyes. The Quagmire triplets looked exhausted, andthey looked hungry, and they looked very, very frightened. But most of all, Isadoraand Duncan looked haunted. The word “haunted,” I’m sure you know, usually appliesto a house, graveyard, or supermarket that has ghosts living in it, but the word canalso be used to describe people who have seen and heard such horrible things thatthey feel as if ghosts are living inside them, haunting their brains and hearts withmisery and despair. The Quagmires looked this way, and it broke the Baudelairehearts to see their friends look so desperately sad.“Is it really you?” Duncan said, squinting at the Baudelaires from the far end of thecage. “Can it really, really be you?”“Oh, yes,” Violet said, and found that her eyes were filling with tears.“It’s really the Baudelaires,” Isadora said, stretching her hand out to meet Violet’s.“We’re not dreaming, Duncan . They’re really here.”Klaus and Sunny reached into the cage as well, and Duncan left his corner to reachthe Baudelaires as best he could from behind bars. The five children embraced asmuch as they could, half laughing and half crying because they were all together oncemore.“How in the world did you know where we are?” Isadora said. “We don’t evenknow where we are.”“You’re in a secret passageway inside 667 Dark Avenue ,” Klaus said, “but wedidn’t know you’d be here. We were just trying to find out what Gunther—that’s whatOlaf is calling himself now—was up to, and our search led us all the way down here.”“I know what he’s calling himself,” Duncan said, “and I know what he’s up to.”He shuddered, and opened his notebook, which the Baudelaires remembered wasdark green but looked black in the gloom. “Every second we spend with him, all hedoes is brag about his horrible plans, and when he’s not looking, I write downeverything he tells us so I don’t forget it. Even though I’m a kidnap victim, I’m still ajournalist.”“And I’m still a poet,” Isadora said, and opened her notebook, which theBaudelaires remembered was black, but now looked even blacker. “Listen to this:“On Auction Day, when the sun goes down,Gunther will sneak us out of town. ““How will he do that?” Violet asked. “The police have been informed of yourkidnapping, and are on the lookout.”“I know,” Duncan said. “Gunther wants to smuggle us out of the city, and hide usaway on some island where the police won’t find us. He’ll keep us on the island untilwe come of age and he can steal the Quagmire sapphires. Once he has our fortune, hesays, he’ll take us and—”“Don’t say it,” Isadora cried, covering her ears. “He’s told us so many horriblethings. I can’t stand to hear them again.”“Don’t worry, Isadora,” Klaus said. “We’ll alert the authorities, and they’ll arresthim before he can do anything.”“But it’s almost too late,” Duncan said. “The In Auction is tomorrow morning.He’s going to hide us inside one of the items and have one of his associates place thehighest bid.”“Which item?” Violet asked.Duncan flipped the pages of his notebook, and his eyes widened as he reread someof the wretched things Gunther had said. “I don’t know,” he said. “He’s told us somany haunting secrets, Violet. So many awful schemes—all the treachery he hasdone in the past, and all he’s planning to do in the future. It’s all here in this notebook—from V.F.D. all the way to this terrible auction plan.”“We’ll have plenty of time to discuss everything,” Klaus said, “but in themeantime, let’s get you out of this cage before Gunther comes back. Violet, do youthink you can pick this lock?”Violet took the lock in her hands and squinted at it in the gloom. “It’s prettycomplicated,” she said. “He must have bought himself some extra-difficult locks,after I broke into that suitcase of his when we were living with Uncle Monty. If I hadsome tools, maybe I could invent something, but there’s absolutely nothing downhere.”“Aguen?” Sunny asked, which meant something like “Could you saw through thebars of the cage?”“Not saw,” Violet said, so quietly that it was as if she was talking to herself. “Idon’t have the time to manufacture a saw. But maybe …” Her voice trailed off, butthe other children could see, in the gloom, that she was tying her hair up in a ribbon,to keep it out of her eyes.“Look, Duncan ,” Isadora said, “she’s thinking up an invention! We’ll be out ofhere in no time!”“Every night since we’ve been kidnapped,” Duncan said, “we’ve been dreaming ofthe day when we would see Violet Baudelaire inventing something that could rescueus.”“If we’re going to rescue you in time,” Violet said, thinking furiously, “then mysiblings and I have to climb back up to the penthouse right away.”Isadora looked nervously around the tiny, dark room. “You’re going to leave usalone?” she asked.“If I’m going to invent something to get you out of that cage,” Violet replied, “Ineed all the help I can get, so Klaus and Sunny have to come with me. Sunny, startclimbing. Klaus and I will be right behind you.”“Onosew,” Sunny said, which meant “Yes ma’am,” and Klaus lifted her up to theend of the rope so she could begin the long, dark climb back up to the Squalors’apartment. Klaus began climbing right behind her, and Violet clasped hands with herfriends.“We’ll be back as soon as we can,” she promised. “Don’t worry, Quagmires.You’ll be out of danger before you know it.”“In case anything goes wrong,” Duncan said, flipping to a page in his notebook,“like it did the last time, let me tell you—”Violet placed her finger on Duncan ‘s mouth. “Shush,” she said. “Nothing will gowrong this time. I swear it.”“But if it does,” Duncan said, “you should know about V.F.D. before the auctionbegins.”“Don’t tell me about it now,” Violet said. “We don’t have time. You can tell uswhen we’re all safe and sound.” The eldest Baudelaire grabbed the end of theextension cord and started to follow her siblings. “I’ll see you soon,” she called downto the Quagmires, who were already fading into the darkness as she began her climb.“I’ll see you soon,” she said again, just as she lost all sight of them.The climb back up the secret passageway was much more tiring but a lot lessterrifying, simply because they knew what they would find at the other end of theirersatz rope. On the way down the elevator shaft, the Baudelaires had no idea whatwould be waiting for them at the bottom of such a dark and cavernous journey, butViolet, Klaus, and Sunny knew that all seventy-one bedrooms of the Squalorpenthouse would be at the top. And it was these bedrooms—along with the livingrooms, dining rooms, breakfast rooms, snack rooms, sitting rooms, standing rooms,ballrooms, bathrooms, kitchens, and the assortment of rooms that seemed to have nopurpose at all—that would be helpful in rescuing the Quagmires.“Listen to me,” Violet said to her siblings, after they had been climbing for a fewminutes. “When we get up to the top, I want the two of you to search the penthouse.”“What?” Klaus said, peering down at his sister. “We already searched it yesterday,remember?”“I don’t want you to search it for Gunther,” Violet replied. “I want you to search itfor long, slender objects made of iron.”“Agoula?” Sunny asked, which meant “What for?”“I think the easiest way to get the Quagmires out of that cage will be by welding,”Violet said. “Welding is when you use something very hot to melt metal. If we meltthrough a few of the bars of the cage, we can make a door and get Duncan andIsadora out of there.”“That’s a good idea,” Klaus agreed. “But I thought that welding required a lot ofcomplicated equipment.”“Usually it does,” Violet said. “In a normal welding situation, I’d use a weldingtorch, which is a device that makes a very small flame to melt the metal. But theSqualors won’t have a welding torch—that’s a tool, and tools are out. So I’m going todevise another method. When you two find the long, slender objects made of iron,meet me in the kitchen closest to the front door.”“Selrep,” Sunny said, which meant something like “That’s the one with the brightblue oven.”“Right,” Violet said, “and I’m going to use that bright blue oven to heat those ironobjects as hot as they can get. When they are burning, burning hot, we will take themback down to the cage and use their heat to melt the bars.”“Will they stay hot long enough to work, after such a long climb down?” Klausasked.“They’d better,” Violet replied grimly. “It’s our only hope.”To hear the phrase “our only hope” always makes one anxious, because it meansthat if the only hope doesn’t work, there is nothing left, and that is never pleasant tothink about, however true it might be. The three Baudelaires felt anxious about thefact that Violet’s invention was their only hope of rescuing the Quagmires, and theywere quiet the rest of the way up the elevator shaft, not wanting to consider whatwould happen to Duncan and Isadora if this only hope didn’t work. Finally, theybegan to see the dim light from the open sliding doors, and at last they were onceagain at the front door of the Squalors’ apartment.“Remember,” Violet whispered, “long, slender objects made of iron. We can’t usebronze or silver or even gold, because those metals will melt in the oven. I’ll see youin the kitchen.”The younger Baudelaires nodded solemnly, and followed two different trails ofbread crumbs in opposite directions, while Violet walked straight into the kitchenwith the bright blue oven and looked around uncertainly. Cooking had never been herforte—a phrase which here means “something she couldn’t do very well, except formaking toast, and sometimes she couldn’t even do that without burning it to acrisp”—and she was a bit nervous about using the oven without any adultsupervision. But then she thought about all the things she had done recently withoutadult supervision—sprinkling crumbs on the floor, eating apple butter, climbingdown an empty elevator shaft on a ersatz rope made of extension cords, curtain pulls,and neckties tied together with the Devil’s Tongue— and stiffened her resolve. Sheturned the oven’s bright blue temperature dial to the highest temperature—500degrees Fahrenheit—and then, as the oven slowly heated up, began quietly openingand closing the kitchen drawers, looking for three sturdy oven mitts. Oven mitts, asyou probably know, are kitchen accessories that serve as ersatz hands by enablingyou to pick up objects that would burn your fingers if you touched them directly. TheBaudelaires would have to use oven mitts, Violet realized, once the long, slenderobjects were hot enough to be used as welding torches. Just as her siblings enteredthe kitchen, Violet found three oven mitts emblazoned with the fancy, curly writingof the In Boutique stuffed into the bottom of the ninth drawer she had opened.“We hit the jackpot,” Klaus whispered, and Sunny nodded in agreement. The twoyounger Baudelaires were using an expression which here means “Look at these firetongs—they’re perfect!” and they were absolutely right. “Fireplaces must have beenin at some point,” Klaus explained, holding up three long, slender pieces of iron,“because Sunny remembered that living room with six fireplaces between theballroom with the green walls and the bathroom with that funny-looking sink. Next tothe fireplaces are fire tongs—you know, these long pieces of iron that people use tomove logs around to keep a fire going. I figured that if they can touch burning logs,they’ll be able to survive a hot oven.”“You really did hit the jackpot,” Violet said. “Fire tongs are perfect. Now, when Iopen the door of the oven, you put them in, Klaus. Sunny, stand back. Babiesshouldn’t be near a hot oven.”“Prawottle,” Sunny said. She meant something like “Older children aren’tsupposed to be near a hot oven either, especially without adult supervision,” but sheunderstood that it was an emergency and crawled to the opposite end of the kitchen,where she could safely watch her older siblings put the long, slender tongs into thehot oven. Like most ovens, the Squalors’ bright blue oven was designed for bakingcakes and casseroles, not fire tongs, and it was impossible to shut the door of theoven with the long pieces of iron inside. So, as the Baudelaire orphans waited for thepieces of iron to heat up into welding torches, the kitchen heated up as well, as someof the hot air from the oven escaped out the open door. By the time Klaus asked if thewelding torches were ready, the kitchen felt as if it were an oven instead of merelycontaining one.“Not yet,” Violet replied, peering carefully into the open oven door. “The tips ofthe tongs are just beginning to get yellow with heat. We need them to get white withheat, so it will still be a few minutes.”“I’m nervous,” Klaus said, and then corrected himself. “I mean I’m anxious. Idon’t like leaving the Quagmires down there all alone.”“I’m anxious, too,” Violet said, “but the only thing we can do now is wait. If wetake the iron out of the oven now, it won’t be of any use to us by the time we get allthe way down to the cage.”Klaus and Sunny sighed, but they nodded in agreement with their sister and settleddown to wait for the welding torches to be ready, and as they waited, they felt as ifthis particular kitchen in the Squalor penthouse was being remodeled before theirvery eyes. When the Baudelaires had searched the apartment to see if Gunther washiding in it, they had left crumbs in an assortment of bedrooms, living rooms, diningrooms, breakfast rooms, snack rooms, sitting rooms, standing rooms, bathrooms,ballrooms, and kitchens, as well as those rooms that seemed to have no purpose at all,but the one type of room that the Squalor penthouse lacked was a waiting room.Waiting rooms, as I’m sure you know, are small rooms with plenty of chairs forwaiting, as well as piles of old, dull magazines to read and some vapid paintings—theword “vapid” here means “usually containing horses in a field or puppies in abasket”—while you endure the boredom that doctors and dentists inflict on theirpatients before bringing them in to poke them and prod them and do all the miserablethings that such people are paid to do. It is very rare to have a waiting room insomeone’s home, because even a home as enormous as the Squalors’ does not containa doctor’s or dentist’s office, and also because waiting rooms are so uninteresting thatyou would never want one in the place where you live. The Baudelaires had certainlynever wished that the Squalors had a waiting room in their penthouse, but as they satand waited for Violet’s invention to be ready to use, they felt as if waiting roomswere suddenly in and Esmé had ordered one constructed right there in the kitchen.The kitchen cabinets were not painted with horses in a field or puppies in a basket,and there were no old, dull magazine articles printed on the bright blue stove, but asthe three children waited for the iron objects to turn yellow and then orange and thenred as they grew hotter and hotter and hotter, they felt the same itchy nervousness asthey did when waiting for a trained medical professional.But at last the fire tongs were white-hot, and were ready for their weldingappointment with the thick iron bars of the cage. Violet passed out an oven mitt toeach of her siblings and then put the third one on her own hand to carefully removeeach tong from the oven. “Hold them very, very carefully,” she said, giving an ersatzwelding torch to each of her siblings. “They’re hot enough to melt metal, so justimagine what they could do if they touched us. But I’m sure we can manage.”“It’ll be tougher to go down this time,” Klaus said, as he followed his sisters to thefront door of the penthouse. He held his fire tong straight up, as if it were a regulartorch instead of a welding one, and he kept his eye on the white-hot part so that itwouldn’t brush up against anything or anybody. “We’ll each have to keep one handfree to hold the torch. But I’m sure we can manage.”“Zelestin,” Sunny said, when the children reached the sliding doors of the ersatzelevator. She meant something along the lines of “It’ll be terrifying to climb downthat horrible passageway again,” but after she said “Zelestin” she added the word“Enipy,” which meant “But I’m sure we can manage,” and the youngest Baudelairewas as sure as her siblings. The three children stood at the edge of the darkpassageway, but they did not pause to gather their courage, as they had done beforetheir first descent into the gaping shaft. Their welding torches were hot, as Violet hadsaid, and going down would be tough, as Klaus had said, and the climb would beterrifying, as Sunny had said, but the siblings looked at one another and knew theycould manage. The Quagmire triplets were counting on them, and the Baudelaireorphans were sure that this only hope would work after all.is that troublesome things tend to remain troublesome no matter how many times youdo them, and that you should avoid doing them unless they are absolutely urgent.Obviously, it was absolutely urgent for the Baudelaire orphans to take anotherthree hour climb down into the terrible darkness of the elevator shaft. The childrenknew that the Quagmire triplets were in grave danger, and that using Violet’sinvention to melt the bars of the cage was the only way that their friends could escapebefore Gunther hid them inside one of the items of the In Auction, and smuggledthem out of the city. But I’m sorry to say that the absolute urgency of the Baudelaires’second climb did not make it any less troublesome. The passageway was still as darkas a bar of extra-dark chocolate sitting in a planetarium covered in a thick, blackblanket, even with the tiny glow from the white-hot tips of the fire tongs, and thesensation of lowering themselves down the elevator shaft still felt like a descent intothe hungry mouth of some terrible creature. With only the clink! of the last extensioncord hitting the lock of the cage to guide them, the three siblings pulled themselvesdown the ersatz rope with one hand, and held out their welding torches with theother, and the trek down to the tiny, filthy room where the triplets were trapped wasstill not even one twenty-seventh O.K.But the dreadful repetition of the Baudelaires’ troublesome climb was dwarfed incomparison with the sinister surprise they found at the bottom, a surprise so terriblethat the three children simply refused to believe it. Violet reached the end of the finalextension cord and thought it was a hallucination. Klaus stood looking at the cageand thought that it must be a phantasm. And Sunny peered in through the bars andprayed that it was some combination of the two. The youngsters stared at the tiny,filthy room, and stared at the cage, but it took them several minutes before theybelieved that the Quagmires were no longer inside.“They’re gone,” Violet said. “They’re gone, and it’s all my fault!” She threw herwelding torch into the corner of the tiny room, where it sizzled against the floor. Sheturned to her siblings, and they could see, by the white glow of their tongs, that theirolder sister was beginning to cry. “My invention was supposed to save them,” shesaid mournfully, “and now Gunther has snatched them away. I’m a terrible inventor,and a horrible friend.”Klaus threw his welding torch into the corner, and gave his sister a hug. “You’rethe best inventor I know,” he said, “and your invention was a good one. Listen tothose welding torches sizzle. The time just wasn’t ripe for your invention, that’s all.”“What’s that supposed to mean?” Violet said miserably.Sunny threw the last welding torch into the corner, and took off her oven mitt soshe could pat her sister comfortingly on the ankle. “Noque, noque,” she said, whichmeant “There, there.”“All it means,” Klaus said, “is that you invented something that wasn’t handy atthis particular time. It’s not your fault that we didn’t rescue them—it’s Gunther’s.”“I guess I know that,” Violet said, wiping her eyes. “I’m just sad that the timewasn’t ripe for my invention. Who knows if we will ever see our friends again?”“We will,” Klaus said. “Just because the time isn’t right for your inventing skills,doesn’t meant it isn’t ripe for my researching skills.”“Dwestall,” Sunny said sadly, which meant “All the research in the world can’thelp Duncan and Isadora now.”“That’s where you’re wrong, Sunny,” Klaus replied. “Gunther might havesnatched them, but we know where he’s taking them—to Veblen Hall. He’s going tohide them inside one of the items at the In Auction, remember?”“Yes,” Violet said, “but which one?”“If we climb back up to the penthouse,” Klaus said, “and go to the Squalor library,I think I can figure it out.”“Meotze,” Sunny said, which meant “But the Squalor library has only those snootybooks on what’s in and what’s out.”“You’re forgetting the recent addition to the library,” Klaus said. “Esmé told usthat Gunther had left a copy of the In Auction catalog, remember? Wherever he’splanning to hide the Quagmires, it’ll be listed in the catalog. If we can figure outwhich item he’s hiding them in—”“We can get them out of there,” Violet finished, “before he auctions them off.That’s a brilliant idea, Klaus!”“It’s no less brilliant than inventing welding torches,” Klaus said. “I just hope thetime is ripe this time.”“Me too,” Violet said. “After all, it’s our only—”“Vinung,” Sunny said, which meant “Don’t say it,” and her sister nodded inagreement. There was no use in saying it was their only hope, and getting them asanxious as they were before, so without another word the Baudelaires hoistedthemselves back up on their makeshift rope and began climbing back up to theSqualor penthouse. The darkness closed in on them again, and the children began tofeel as if their whole lives had been spent in this deep and shadowy pit, instead of in avariety of locations ranging from a lumbermill in Paltryville to a cave on the shoresof Lake Lachrymose to the Baudelaire mansion, which sat in charred remains just afew blocks away from Dark Avenue. But rather than think about all of the shadowyplaces in the Baudelaire past, or the shadowiest place that they were climbingthrough now, the three siblings tried to concentrate on the brighter places in theBaudelaire future. They thought of the penthouse apartment, which drew closer andcloser to them as they climbed.They thought of the Squalor library, which could contain the proper informationthey needed to defeat Gunther’s plan. And they thought of some glorious time thatwas yet to come, when the Baudelaires and the Quagmires could enjoy theirfriendship without the ghastly shadow of evil and greed that hung over them now.The Baudelaire orphans tried to keep their minds on these bright thoughts of thefuture as they climbed up the shadowy elevator shaft, and by the time they reachedthe sliding doors they felt that perhaps this glorious time was not so far off.A Series of Unfortunate Events 6 - TheErsatz Elevator“It must almost be morning,” Violet said, as she helped Sunny hoist herself out ofthe elevator doors. “We’d better untie our rope from the doorknob, and shut thesedoors, otherwise the Squalors will see what we’ve been up to.”“Why shouldn’t they see?” Klaus asked. “Maybe then they’d believe us aboutGunther.”“No one ever believes us about Gunther , or any of Olaf’s other disguises,” Violetsaid, “unless we have some evidence. All we have now is an ersatz elevator, anempty cage, and three cooling fire tongs. That’s not evidence of anything.”“I suppose you’re right,” Klaus said. “Well, why don’t you two untie the rope, andI’ll go straight to the library and start reading the catalog.”“Good plan,” Violet said.“Reauhop!” Sunny said, which meant “And good luck!” Klaus quietly opened thedoor of the penthouse and let himself in, and the Baudelaire sisters began pulling therope back up the shaft. The end of the last extension cord clinked and clinked againstthe walls of the passageway as Sunny wound up the ersatz rope until it was a coil ofextension cords, curtain pulls, and fancy neckties. Violet untied the last double knotto detach it from the doorknob, and turned to her sister.“Let’s store this under my bed,” she said, “in case we need it later. It’s on the wayto the library anyway.”“Yallrel,” Sunny added, which meant “And let’s shut the sliding elevator doors, sothe Squalors don’t see that we’ve been sneaking around an elevator shaft.”“Good thinking,” Violet said, and pressed the Up button. The doors slid shut again,and after taking a good look around to make sure they hadn’t left anything behind,the two Baudelaires walked into the penthouse and followed their bread-crumb trailpast a breakfast room, down a hallway, across a standing room, down a hallway, andfinally to Violet’s room, where they stored the ersatz rope under the bed. They wereabout to head right to the library when Sunny noticed a note that had been left onViolet’s extra-fluffy pillow.“‘Dear Violet,’” read Violet, ‘“I couldn’t find you or your siblings this morning tosay good-bye. I had to leave early to buy yellow paper clips before heading over tothe In Auction. Esmé will take you to Veblen Hall at ten-thirty sharp, so be sure to beready, or she’ll be very annoyed. See you then! Sincerely yours, Jerome Squalor.’”“Yikes!” Sunny said, pointing to the nearest of the 612 clocks that the Squalorsowned.“Yikes is right,” Violet said. “It’s already ten o’clock. All that climbing up anddown the elevator shaft took much longer than I thought.”“Wrech,” Sunny added, which meant something like “Not to mention makingthose welding torches.”“We’d better go to the library right away,” Violet said. “Maybe we can help Klausspeed up the research process in some way.”Sunny nodded in agreement, and the two sisters walked down the hallway to theSqualor library. Since Jerome had first shown it to them, Violet and Sunny had scarcelybeen inside, and it looked like nobody else had used it much, either. A good library willnever be too neat, or too dusty, because somebody will always be in it, taking books offthe shelves and staying up late reading them. Even libraries that were not to theBaudelaires’ taste—Aunt Josephine’s library, for instance, only contained books ongrammar—were comfortable places to be in, because the owners of the library used themso much. But the Squalor library was as neat and as dusty as could be. All of the dullbooks on what was in and what was out sat on the shelves in tidy rows, with layers of duston top of them as if they hadn’t been disturbed since they’d first been placed there. Itmade the Baudelaire sisters a little sad to see all those books sitting in the library unreadand unnoticed, like stray dogs or lost children that nobody wanted to take home. The onlysign of life in the library was their brother, who was reading the catalog so closely that hedidn’t look up until his sisters were standing at his side.“I hate to disturb you when you’re researching,” Violet said, “but there was a notefrom Jerome on my pillow. Esmé is going to take us to Veblen Hall at ten-thirtysharp, and it’s just past ten o’clock now. Is there any way we can help you?”“I don’t see how,” Klaus said, his eyes looking worried behind his glasses.“There’s only one copy of the catalog, and it’s pretty complicated. Each of the itemsfor the auction is called a lot, and the catalog lists each lot with a description and aguess at what the highest bid may be. I’ve read up to Lot #49, which is a valuablepostage stamp.”“Well, Gunther can’t hide the Quagmires in a postage stamp,” Violet said. “Youcan skip that lot.”“I’ve been skipping lots of lots,” Klaus said, “but I’m still no closer to figuring outwhere the triplets will be. Would Gunther hide them in Lot #14—an enormous globe?Would he hide them under the lid of Lot #25—a rare and valuable piano? Would hehide them in Lot #48— an enormous statue of a scarlet fish?” Klaus stopped andturned the page of a catalog. “Or would he hide them in Lot #50, which is—”Klaus ended his sentence in a gasp, but his sisters knew immediately that he didnot mean that the fiftieth item to be sold at the In Auction was a sharp intake ofbreath. He meant he’d discovered something remarkable in the catalog, and theyleaned forward to read over his shoulder and see what it was.“I can’t believe it,” Violet said. “I simply can’t believe it.”“Toomsk,” Sunny said, which meant something like “This must be where theQuagmires will be hidden.”“I agree with Sunny,” Klaus said, “even though there’s no description of the item.They don’t even write what the letters stand for.”“We’ll find out what they stand for,” Violet said, “because we’re going to findEsmé right this minute, and tell her what’s going on. When she finds out, she’llfinally believe us about Gunther, and we’ll get the Quagmires out of Lot #50 beforethey leave the city. You were right, Klaus—the time was ripe for your researchingskills.”“I guess I was right,” Klaus said. “I can scarcely believe our luck.”The Baudelaires looked again at the page of the catalog, making sure that it wasneither a hallucination nor a phantasm. And it wasn’t. Right there, written in neatblack type under the heading “Lot #50,” were three letters, and three punctuationmarks, that seemed to spell out the solution to the Baudelaires’ problems. Thechildren looked at one another and smiled. All three siblings could scarcely believetheir luck. The Baudelaire orphans could scarcely believe that those three lettersspelled out the hiding place of the Quagmires as clearly as it spelled out “V.F.D.”C H A P T E RTen“… and one of the items in the catalog is listed as ‘V.F.D.,’ which is the secret thatthe Quagmires tried to tell us about right before they were kidnapped,” Klausfinished.“This is terrible,” Esmé said, and took a sip of the parsley soda she had insisted onpouring for herself before the Baudelaire orphans could tell her everything they haddiscovered. Then she had insisted on settling herself on the innest couch in herfavorite sitting room, and that the three children sit in three chairs grouped around herin a semicircle, before they could relate the story of Gunther’s true identity, the secretpassageway behind the sliding elevator doors, the scheme to smuggle the Quagmiresout of the city, and the surprising appearance of those three mysterious initials as thedescription of Lot #50. The three siblings were pleased that their guardian had notdismissed their findings, or argued with them about Gunther or the Quagmires oranything else, but instead had quietly and calmly listened to every detail. In fact,Esmé was so quiet and calm that it was disconcerting, a word which here means “awarning that the Baudelaire children did not heed in time.”“This is the least smashing thing I have ever heard,” Esmé said, taking another sipof her in beverage. “Let me see if I have understood everything you have said.Gunther is in fact Count Olaf in disguise.”“Yes,” Violet said. “His boots are covering up his tattoo, and his monocle makeshim scrunch his face up to hide his one eyebrow.”“And he has hidden away the Quagmires in a cage at the bottom of my elevatorshaft,” Esmé said, putting her soda glass down on a nearby table.“Yes,” Klaus said. “There’s no elevator behind those doors. Somehow Guntherremoved it so he could use the shaft as a secret passageway.”“And now he’s taken the Quagmires out of the cage,” Esmé continued, “and isgoing to smuggle them out of the city by hiding them inside Lot #50 of the InAuction.”“Kaxret,” Sunny said, which meant “You got it, Esmé.”“This is certainly a complicated plot,” Esmé said. “I’m surprised that youngchildren such as yourself were able to figure it out, but I’m glad you did.” She pausedfor a moment and removed a speck of dust from one of her fingernails. “And nowthere’s only one thing to do. We’ll rush right to Veblen Hall and put a stop to thisterrible scheme. We’ll have Gunther arrested and the Quagmires set free. We’d betterleave right this minute.”Esmé stood up, and beckoned to the children with a faint smile. The childrenfollowed her out of the sitting room and past twelve kitchens to the front door,exchanging puzzled glances. Their guardian was right, of course, that they should goto Veblen Hall and expose Gunther and his treachery, but they couldn’t helpwondering why the city’s sixth most important financial advisor was so calm whenshe said it. The children were so anxious about the Quagmires that they felt as if theywere jumping out of their skin, but Esmé led the Baudelaires out of the penthouse asif they were going to the grocery store to purchase whole wheat flour instead ofrushing to an auction to stop a horrible crime. As she shut the door of the apartmentand turned to smile at the children again, the three siblings could see no sign ofanxiousness on her face, and it was disconcerting.“Klaus and I will take turns carrying you, Sunny,” Violet said, lifting her sister up.“That way the trip down the stairs will be easier for you.”“Oh, we don’t have to walk down all those stairs,” Esmé said.“That’s true,” Klaus said. “Sliding down the banisters will be much quicker.”Esmé put one arm around the children and began walking them away from thefront door. It was nice to receive an affectionate gesture from their guardian, but herarm was wrapped around them so tightly that they could scarcely move, which wasalso disconcerting. “We won’t have to slide down the banisters, either,” she said.“Then how will we get down from the penthouse?” Violet asked.Esmé stretched out her other arm, and used one of her long fingernails to press theUp button next to the sliding doors. This was the most disconcerting thing of all, butby now, I’m sorry to say, it was too late. “We’ll take the elevator,” she said, as thedoors slid open, and then with one last smile she swept her arm forward and pushedthe Baudelaire orphans into the darkness of the elevator shaft.Sometimes words are not enough. There are some circumstances so utterlywretched that I cannot describe them in sentences or paragraphs or even a wholeseries of books, and the terror and woe that the Baudelaire orphans felt after Esmépushed them into the elevator shaft is one of those most dreadful circumstances thatcan be represented only with two pages of utter blackness. I have no words for theprofound horror the children felt as they tumbled down into the darkness. I can thinkof no sentence that can convey how loudly they screamed, or how cold the air was asit whooshed around them while they fell. And there is no paragraph I could possiblytype that would enable you to imagine how frightened the Baudelaires were as theyplunged toward certain doom.But I can tell you that they did not die. Not one hair on their heads had beenharmed by the time the children finally stopped tumbling through the darkness. Theysurvived the fall from the top of the shaft for the simple reason that they did not reachthe bottom. Something broke their fall, a phrase which here means that theBaudelaires’ plunge was stopped halfway between the sliding elevator doors and themetal cage where the Quagmires had been locked up. Something broke their fallwithout even injuring them, and though it at first felt like a miracle, when thechildren understood that they were alive, and no longer falling, they reached out theirhands and soon realized that it felt a lot more like a net. While the Baudelaires werereading the catalog of the In Auction, and telling Esmé what they had learned,someone had stretched a rope net across the entire passageway, and it was this netthat had stopped the children from plunging to their doom. Far, far above the orphanswas the Squalor penthouse, and far, far below them was the cage in the tiny, filthyroom with the hallway leading out of it. The Baudelaire orphans were trapped.But it is far better to be trapped than to be dead, and the three children huggedeach other in relief that something had broken their fall. “Spenset,” Sunny said, in avoice hoarse from screaming.“Yes, Sunny,” Violet said, holding her close. “We’re alive.” She sounded as if shewere talking as much to herself as to her sister.“We’re alive,” Klaus said, hugging them both. “We’re alive, and we’re O.K.”“I wouldn’t say you were O.K.” Esmé‘s voice called down to them from the top ofthe passageway. Her voice echoed off the walls of the passageway, but the childrencould still hear every cruel word. “You’re alive, but you’re definitely not O.K. Assoon as the auction is over and the Quagmires are on their way out of the city,Gunther will come and get you, and I can guarantee that you three orphans will neverbe O.K. again. What a wonderful and profitable day! My former acting teacher willfinally get his hands on not one but two enormous fortunes!”“Your former acting teacher?” Violet asked in horror. “You mean you’ve knownGunther’s true identity the entire time?”“Of course I did,” Esmé said. “I just had to fool you kids and my dim-wittedhusband into thinking he was really an auctioneer. Luckily, I am a smashing actress,so it was easy to trick you.”“So you’ve been working together with that terrible villain?” Klaus called up toher. “How could you do that to us?”“He’s not a terrible villain,” Esmé said. “He’s a genius! I instructed the doormannot to let you out of the penthouse until Gunther came and retrieved you, but Guntherconvinced me that throwing you down there was a better idea, and he was right! Nowthere’s no way you’ll make it to the auction and mess up our plans!”“Zisalem!” Sunny shrieked.“My sister is right!” Violet cried. “You’re our guardian! You’re supposed to bekeeping us safe, not throwing us down elevator shafts and stealing our fortune!”“But I want to steal from you,” Esmé said. “I want to steal from you the wayBeatrice stole from me.”“What are you talking about?” Klaus asked. “You’re already unbelievably wealthy.Why do you want even more money?”“Because it’s in, of course,” Esmé said. “Well, toodle-oo, children. ‘Toodle-oo’ isthe in way of saying good-bye to three bratty orphans you’re never going to seeagain.”“Why?” Violet cried. “Why are you treating us so terribly?”Esmé‘s answer to this question was the cruelest of all, and like a fall down anelevator shaft, there were no words for her reply. She merely laughed, a loud rudecackle that bounced off the walls of the passageway and then faded into silence astheir guardian walked away. The Baudelaire orphans looked at one another—or triedto look at one another, in the darkness— and trembled in disgust and fear, shaking thenet that had trapped them and saved them at the same time.“Dielee?” Sunny said miserably, and her siblings knew that she meant “What arewe going to do?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said, “but we’ve got to do something.”“And we’ve got to do it quickly,” Violet added, “but this is a very difficultsituation. There’s no use climbing up or down—the walls feel too smooth.”“And there’s no use making a lot of noise to try and get someone’s attention,”Klaus said. “Even if anybody hears, they’ll just think someone is yelling in one of theapartments.”Violet closed her eyes in thought, although it was so dark that it didn’t really makea difference if her eyes were closed or open. “Klaus, maybe the time is right for yourresearching skills,” she said after a moment. “Can you think of some moment inhistory when people got out of a trap like this one?”“I don’t think so,” Klaus replied sadly. “In the myth of Hercules, he’s trappedbetween two monsters named Scylla and Charybdis, just like we’re trapped betweenthe sliding doors and the floor. But he got out of the trap by turning them intowhirlpools.”“Glaucus,” Sunny said, which meant something like “But we can’t do that.”“I know,” Klaus said glumly. “Myths are often entertaining, but they’re never veryhelpful. Maybe the time is ripe for one of Violet’s inventions.”“But I don’t have any materials to work with,” Violet said, reaching out her handto feel the edges of the net. “I can’t use this net for an invention, because if I start totear it up, we’ll fall. The net seems to be attached to the walls with little metal pegsthat stick into the walls, but I can’t pull those out and use them, either.”“Gyzan?” Sunny asked.“Yes,” Violet replied, “pegs. Feel right here, Sunny. Gunther probably stood on along ladder to drive these pegs into the walls of the passageway, and then strung thenet across the pegs. I guess the walls of the elevator shaft are soft enough that smallsharp objects can be stuck into them.”“Thole?” Sunny asked, which meant “Like teeth?” and instantly her siblings knewwhat she was thinking.“No, Sunny,” Violet said. “You can’t climb up the elevator shaft by using yourteeth. It’s too dangerous.”“Yoigt,” Sunny pointed out, which meant something like “But if I fall, I’ll just fallback into the net.”“But what if you get stuck halfway up?” Klaus asked. “Or what if you lose atooth?”“Vasta,” Sunny said, which meant “I’ll just have to risk it—it’s our only hope,”and her siblings reluctantly agreed. They did not like the idea of their baby sisterclimbing up to the sliding doors of the ersatz elevator, using only her teeth, but theycould think of no other way to escape in time to foil Gunther’s plan. The time wasn’tripe for Violet’s inventing skills, or for the knowledge Klaus had from his reading,but the time was ripe for Sunny’s sharp teeth, and the youngest Baudelaire tilted herhead back and then swung forward, sticking one of her teeth into the wall with arough sound that would make any dentist weep for hours. But the Baudelaires werenot dentists, and the three children listened closely in the darkness to hear if Sunny’stooth would stick as firmly as the net pegs. To their delight they heard nothing—noscraping or sliding or cracking or anything that would indicate that Sunny’s teethwouldn’t hold. Sunny even shook her head a little bit to see if that would easilydislodge her tooth from the wall, but it remained a firm toothhold. Sunny swung herhead slightly, and embedded another tooth, slightly above the first one. The secondtooth stuck, so Sunny carefully eased out the first tooth and inserted it once more inthe wall, slightly above the second tooth. By spacing her teeth slightly apart, Sunnyhad moved a few inches up the wall, and by the time she stuck her first tooth abovethe second one again, her little body was no longer touching the net.“Good luck, Sunny,” Violet said.“We’re rooting for you, Sunny,” Klaus said.Sunny did not reply, but her siblings were not alarmed because they imagined itwas difficult to say much when you had a mouthful of wall. So Violet and Klausmerely sat on their net and continued to call up encouragement to their baby sister.Had Sunny been able to climb and speak at the same time, she might have said“Soried,” which meant something like “So far so good,” or “Yaff,” which meant “Ithink I’ve reached the halfway point,” but the two older Baudelaires heard nothingbut the sound of her teeth inserting and detaching themselves in the dark until Sunnytriumphantly called down the word “Top!”“Oh, Sunny!” Klaus cried. “You did it!”“Way to go!” Violet called up. “Now, go get our makeshift rope from under thebed, and we’ll climb up and join you.”“Ganba,” Sunny called back, and crawled off. The two older siblings sat andwaited in the darkness for a while, marveling at their sister’s skills.“I couldn’t have climbed all the way up this passageway,” Violet said, “not when Iwas Sunny’s age.”“Me neither,” Klaus said, “although we both have regular-sized teeth.”“It’s not just the size of her teeth,” Violet said, “it’s the size of her courage, and thesize of her concern for her siblings.”“And the size of the trouble we’re in,” Klaus added, “and the size of ourguardian’s treachery. I can’t believe Esmé was scheming together with Gunther theentire time. She’s as ersatz as her elevator.”“Esmé‘s a pretty good actress,” Violet said comfortingly, “even though she’s aterrible person. She had us completely fooled that Gunther had her completelyfooled. But what was she talking about when she said—”“Tada!” Sunny called down from the sliding doors.“She has the rope,” Violet said excitedly. “Tie it to the doorknob, Sunny, using theDevil’s Tongue.”“No,” Klaus said, “I have a better idea.”“A better idea than climbing out of here?” Violet asked.“I want to climb out of here,” Klaus said, “but I don’t think we should climb up.Then we’ll just be at the penthouse.”“But from the penthouse,” Violet said, “we can get to Veblen Hall. We can evenslide down the banisters to save time.”“But at the end of the banisters,” Klaus said, “is the lobby of the building, and inthe lobby is a doorman with strict instructions not to let us leave.”“I hadn’t thought about him,” Violet said. “He always follows instructions.”“That’s why we’ve got to leave 667 Dark Avenue another way,” Klaus said.“Ditemu,” Sunny called down, which meant something like “What other way isthere?”“Down,” Klaus said. “That tiny room at the bottom of the elevator shaft has ahallway leading out of it, remember? It’s right next to the cage.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “That must be how Gunther snatched the Quagmiresaway before we could rescue them. But who knows where it leads?”“Well, if Gunther took the Quagmires down that hallway,” Klaus said, “it mustlead to somewhere near Veblen Hall. And that’s precisely where we want to go.”“You’re right,” Violet said. “Sunny, forget about tying the rope to the doorknob.Someone might see it, anyway, and realize we’ve escaped. Just bring it down here.Do you think you can bite your way back down?”“Geronimo!” Sunny cried, which meant something like “I don’t need to bite myway back down,” and the youngest Baudelaire was right. She took a deep breath, andthrew herself down the dark passageway, the coil of ersatz rope trailing behind her.This time, the plunge does not need to be represented by pages of darkness, becausethe terror of the long, dark fall was alleviated—the word “alleviated” here means“not particularly on Sunny’s mind”— because the youngest Baudelaire knew that anet, and her siblings, were waiting for her at the bottom. With a thump! Sunny landedon the net, and with a slightly smaller thump! the coil of rope landed next to her.After making sure her sister was unharmed by the fall, Violet began tying one end oftheir rope to one of the pegs holding the net in place.“I’ll make sure this end of the rope is secured,” Violet said. “Sunny, if your teetharen’t too sore from the climb, use them to cut a hole in the net, so we can climbthrough it.”“What can I do?” Klaus asked.“You can pray this works,” Violet said, but the Baudelaire sisters were so quickwith their tasks that there was no time for even the shortest of religious ceremonies.In a matter of moments, Violet had attached the rope to the peg with somecomplicated and powerful knots, and Sunny had cut a child-sized hole in the middleof the net. Violet dangled the rope down the hole, and the three children listened untilthey heard the familiar clink! of their ersatz rope against the metal cage. TheBaudelaire orphans paused for a moment at the hole in the net, and stared down intothe blackness.“I can’t believe we’re climbing down this passageway again,” Violet said.“I know what you mean,” Klaus said. “If someone had asked me, that day at thebeach, if I ever thought we’d be climbing up and down an empty elevator shaft in anattempt to rescue a pair of triplets, I would have said never in a million years. Andnow we’re doing it for the fifth time in twenty-four hours. What happened to us?What led us to this awful place we’re staring at now?”“Misfortune,” Violet said quietly.“A terrible fire,” Klaus said.“Olaf,” Sunny said decisively, and began crawling down the rope. Klaus followedhis sister down through the hole in the net, and Violet followed Klaus, and the threeBaudelaires made the long trek down the bottom half of the passageway until theyreached the tiny, filthy room, the empty cage, and the hallway that they hoped wouldlead them to the In Auction. Sunny squinted up at their rope, making sure that hersiblings had safely reached the bottom. Klaus squinted at the hallway, trying to seehow long it was, or if there was anybody or anything lurking in it. And Violetsquinted in the corner, at the welding torches the children had thrown in the cornerwhen the time had not been ripe to use them.“We should take these with us,” she said.“But why?” Klaus asked. “They’ve certainly cooled off long ago.”“They have,” Violet said, picking one up.“And the tips are all bent from throwing them in the corner. But they still mightcome in handy for something. We don’t know what we’ll encounter in that hallway,and I don’t want to come up shorthanded. Here, Klaus. Here’s yours, and here’sSunny’s.”The younger Baudelaires took the bent, cooled fire tongs, and then, sticking closeto one another, all three children took their first few steps down the hallway. In theutter darkness of this terrible place, the fire tongs seemed like long, slenderextensions of the Baudelaires’ hands, instead of inventions they were each holding,but this was not what Violet had meant when she said she didn’t want them to beshort-handed. “Shorthanded” is a word which here means “unprepared,” and Violetwas thinking that three children alone in a dark hallway holding fire tongs wereperhaps a bit more prepared than three children alone in a dark hallway holdingnothing at all. And I’m sorry to tell you that the eldest Baudelaire was absolutelyright. The three children couldn’t afford to be shorthanded at all, not with the unfairadvantage that was lurking at the end of their walk. As they took one cautious stepafter another, the Baudelaire orphans needed to be as longhanded as possible for theelement of surprise that was waiting for them when the dark hallway came to an end.C H A P T E RElevenThe French expression “cul-de-sac” describes what the Baudelaire orphans foundwhen they reached the end of the dark hallway, and like all French expressions, it ismost easily understood when you translate each French word into English. The word“de,” for instance, is a very common French word, so even if I didn’t know a word ofFrench, I would be certain that “de” means “of.” The word “sac” is less common, butI am fairly certain that it means something like “mysterious circumstances.” And theword “cul” is such a rare French word that I am forced to guess at its translation, andmy guess is that in this case it would mean “At the end of the dark hallway, theBaudelaire children found an assortment,” so that the expression “cul-de-sac” heremeans “At the end of the dark hallway, the Baudelaire children found an assortmentof mysterious circumstances.”If the Baudelaires had been able to choose a French expression that would bewaiting for them at the end of the hallway, they might have chosen one that meant“By the time the three children rounded the last dark corner of the corridor, the policehad captured Gunther and rescued the Quagmire triplets,” or at least “TheBaudelaires were delighted to see that the hallway led straight to Veblen Hall, wherethe In Auction was taking place.” But the end of the hallway proved to be asmysterious and worrisome as the rest of it. The entire length of the hallway was verydark, and it had so many twists and turns that the three children frequently foundthemselves bumping into the walls. The ceiling of the hallway was very low—Gunther must have had to crouch when he used it for his treacherous plans—and overtheir heads the three children could hear a variety of noises that told them where thehallway was probably taking them. After the first few curves, they heard the mutedvoice of the doorman, and his footsteps as he walked overhead, and the Baudelairesrealized that they must be underneath the lobby of the Squalors’ apartment building.After a few more curves, they heard two men discussing ocean decorations, and theyrealized they must be walking beneath Dark Avenue . And after a few more curves,they heard the rickety rattle of an old trolley that was passing over their heads, andthe children knew that the hallway was leading them underneath one of the city’strolley stations. On and on the hallway curved, and the Baudelaires heard a variety ofcity sounds—the clopping of horses’ hooves, the grinding of factory equipment, thetolling of church bells and the clatter of people dropping things—but when theyfinally reached the corridor’s end, there was no sound over their heads at all. TheBaudelaires stood still and tried to imagine a place in the city where it was absolutelysilent.“Where do you think we are?” Violet asked, straining her ears to listen even moreclosely. “It’s as silent as a tomb up there.”“That’s not what I’m worried about,” Klaus answered, poking the wall with hisfire tong. “I can’t find which way the hallway curves. I think we might be at a deadend.”“A dead end!” Violet said, and poked the opposite wall with her tong. “It can’t be adead end. Nobody builds a hallway that goes nowhere.”“Pratjic,” Sunny said, which meant “Gunther must have ended up somewhere if hetook this passageway.”“I’m poking every inch of these walls,” Klaus said grimly, “and there’s no door orstairway or curve or anything. It’s a dead end, all right. There’s no other word for it.Actually, there’s a French expression for ‘dead end,’ but I can’t remember what is.”“I guess we have to retrace our steps,” Violet said miserably. “I guess we have toturn around, and make our way back down the corridor, and climb up to the net, andhave Sunny teeth her way to the penthouse and find some more materials to make anersatz rope, and climb all the way up to the top floor, and slide down the banisters tothe lobby, and sneak past the doorman and run to Veblen Hall.”“Pyetian,” Sunny said, which meant something like “We’ll never make it there intime to expose Gunther and save the Quagmires.”“I know,” Violet sighed. “But I don’t know what else we can do. It looks likewe’re shorthanded, even with these tongs.”“If we had some shovels,” Klaus said, “we could try to dig our way out of thehallway, but we can’t use the tongs as shovels.”“Tend,” Sunny said, which meant “If we had some dynamite, we could blast ourway out of the hallway, but we can’t use the tongs as dynamite.”“But we might be able to use them as noise-makers,” Violet said suddenly. “Let’sbang on the ceiling with our tongs, and see if we can attract the attention of someonewho is passing by.”“It doesn’t sound like anyone is passing by,” Klaus said, “but it’s worth a try. Here,Sunny, I’ll pick you up so your tong can reach the ceiling, too.”Klaus picked his sister up, and the three children began to bang on the ceiling,planning to make a racket that would last for several minutes. But as soon as the theirtongs first hit the ceiling, the Baudelaires were showered with black dust. It raineddown on them like a dry, filthy storm, and the children had to cut short their bangingto cough and rub their eyes and spit out the dust that had fallen into their mouths.“Ugh!” Violet spat. “This tastes terrible.”“It tastes like burned toast,” Klaus said.“Peflob!” Sunny shrieked.At that, Violet stopped coughing, and licked the tip of her finger in thought. “It’sashes,” she said. “Maybe we’re below a fireplace.”“I don’t think so,” Klaus said. “Look up.”The Baudelaires looked up, and saw that the black dust had uncovered a verysmall stripe of light, barely as wide as a pencil. The children gazed up into it, andcould see the morning sun gazing right back at them.“Tisdu?” Sunny said, which meant “Where in the city can you find ashesoutdoors?”“Maybe we’re below a barbeque pit,” Klaus said.“Well, we’ll find out soon enough,” Violet replied, and began to sweep more dustaway from the ceiling. As it fell on the children in a thick, dark cloud, the skinnystripe of light became four skinny stripes, like a drawing of a square on the ceiling.By the light of the square, the Baudelaires could see a pair of hinges. “Look,” Violetsaid, “it’s a trapdoor. We couldn’t see it in the darkness of the hallway, but there it is.”Klaus pressed his tong against the trapdoor to try to open it, but it didn’t budge.“It’s locked, of course,” he said. “I bet Gunther locked it behind him when he tookthe Quagmires away.”Violet looked up at the trapdoor, and the other children could see, by the light ofthe sun streaming in, that she was tying her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of hereyes. “A lock isn’t going to stop us,” she said. “Not when we’ve come all this way. Ithink the time is finally ripe for these tongs—not as welding torches, and not asnoisemakers.” She smiled, and turned her attention to her siblings. “We can use themas crowbars,” she said excitedly.“Herdiset?” Sunny asked.“A crowbar is a sort of portable lever,” Violet said, “and these tongs will workperfectly. We’ll stick the bent end into the part where the light is shining through, andthen push the rest of the tong sharply down. It should bring the trapdoor down with it.Understand?”“I think so,” Klaus said. “Let’s try.” The Baudelaires tried. Carefully, they stuckthe part of the tongs that had been heated in the oven into one side of the square oflight. And then, grunting with the effort, they pushed the straight end of the tongsdown as sharply as they could, and I’m happy to report that the crowbars workedperfectly. With a tremendous crackling sound and another cloud of ashes, thetrapdoor bent on its hinges and opened toward the children, who had to duck as itswung over their heads. Sunlight streamed into the hallway, and the Baudelaires sawthat they had finally come to the end of their long, dark journey. “It worked!” Violetcried. “It really worked!”“The time was ripe for your inventing skills!” Klaus cried. “The solution was righton the tip of our tongs!”“Up!” Sunny shrieked, and the children agreed. By standing on tiptoe, theBaudelaires could grab ahold of the hinges and pull themselves out of the hallway,leaving behind their crowbars, and in a moment the three children were squinting inthe sunlight.One of my most prized possessions is a small wooden box with a special lock on itthat is more than five hundred years old and works according to a secret code that mygrandfather taught me. My grandfather learned it from his grandfather, and hisgrandfather learned it from his grandfather, and I would teach it to my grandchild if Ithought that I would ever have a family of my own instead of living out theremainder of my days all alone in this world. The small wooden box is one of mymost prized possessions, because when the lock is opened according to the code, asmall silver key may be found inside, and this key fits the lock on one of my othermost prized possessions, which is a slightly larger wooden box given to me by awoman whom my grandfather always refused to speak about. Inside this slightlylarger wooden box is a roll of parchment, a word which here means “some very oldpaper printed with a map of the city at the time when the Baudelaire orphans lived init.” The map has every single detail of the city written down in dark blue ink, withmeasurements of buildings and sketches of costumes and charts of changes in theweather all added in the margins by the map’s twelve previous owners, all of whomare now dead. I have spent more hours than I can ever count going over every inch ofthis map as carefully as possible, so that everything that can be learned from it can becopied into my files and then into books such as this one, in the hopes that thegeneral public will finally learn every detail of the treacherous conspiracy I havespent my life trying to escape. The map contains thousands of fascinating things thathave been discovered by all sorts of explorers, criminal investigators, and circusperformers over the years, but the most fascinating thing that the map contains wasdiscovered just at this moment by the three Baudelaire children. Sometimes, in thedead of night when I cannot sleep, I rise from my bed and work the code on the smallwooden box to retrieve the silver key that opens the slightly larger wooden box so Ican sit at my desk and look once again, by candlelight, at the two dotted linesindicating the underground hallway that begins at the bottom of the elevator shaft at667 Dark Avenue and ends at the trapdoor that the Baudelaires managed to open withtheir ersatz crowbars. I stare and stare at the part of the city where the orphansclimbed out of that ghastly corridor, but no matter how much I stare I can scarcelybelieve my own eyes, any more than the youngsters could believe theirs.The siblings had been in darkness for so long that their eyes took a long time to getused to properly lit surroundings, and they stood for a moment, rubbing their eyesand trying to see exactly where the trapdoor had led them. But in the suddenbrightness of the morning sun, the only thing the children could see was the chubbyshadow of a man standing near them.“Excuse me,” Violet called, while her eyes were still adjusting. “We need to get toVeblen Hall. It’s an emergency. Could you tell me where it is?”“Ju-just two blo-blocks that way,” the shadow stuttered, and the children graduallyrealized that it was a slightly overweight mailman, pointing down the street andlooking at the children fearfully. “Please don’t hurt me,” the mailman added, steppingaway from the youngsters.“We’re not going to hurt you,” Klaus said, wiping ashes off his glasses.“Ghosts always say that,” the mailman said, “but then they hurt you anyway.”“But we’re not ghosts,” Violet said.“Don’t tell me you’re not ghosts,” the mailman replied. “I saw you rise out of theashes myself, as if you had come from the center of the earth. People have alwayssaid it’s haunted here on the empty lot where the Baudelaire mansion burned down,and now I know it’s true.”The mailman ran away before the Baudelaires could reply, but the three childrenwere too amazed by his words to speak to him anyway. They blinked and blinked inthe morning sun, and finally their eyes adjusted enough to see that the mailman wasright. It was true. It was not true that the three children were ghosts, of course. Theywere not spooky creatures who had risen from the center of the earth, but threeorphans who had hoisted themselves out of the hallway. But the mailman had spokenthe truth when he had told them where they were. The Baudelaire orphans lookedaround them, and huddled together as if they were still in a dark hallway instead ofoutdoors in broad daylight, standing amid the ashy ruins of their destroyed home.three siblings were in no state to appreciate architectural detail. Violet led the way upthe stairs to Veblen Hall and grabbed the doorknob without a thought to the ashy smearshe would leave on its polished surface. If I had been with the Baudelaires, I never wouldhave opened the award-winning door. I would have considered myself lucky to havegotten out of the net suspended in the middle of the elevator shaft, and to have escapedGunther’s evil plan, and I would have fled to some remote corner of the world and hidfrom Gunther and his associates for the rest of my life rather than risk another encounterwith this treacherous villain—an encounter, I’m sorry to say, that will only bring moremisery into the three orphans’ lives. But these three children were far more courageousthan I shall ever be, and they paused just for a moment to gather all of this courage up anduse it.“Beyond this doorknob,” Violet said, “is our last chance at revealing Gunther’strue identity and his terrible plans.”“Just past those brass hinges,” Klaus said, “is our final opportunity to save theQuagmires from being smuggled out of the country.”“Sorusu,” Sunny said, which meant “Behind those wooden planks lies the answerto the mystery of V.F.D., and why the secret hallway led us to the place where theBaudelaire mansion burned to the ground, killing our parents, and beginning theseries of unfortunate events that haunt us wherever we go.”The Baudelaires looked at one another and stood up as straight as they could, as iftheir backbones were as strong as their courage, and Violet opened the door of VeblenHall; and instantly the orphans found themselves in the middle of a hubbub, a wordwhich here means “a huge crowd of people in an enormous, fancy room.” VeblenHall had a very high ceiling, a very shiny floor, and one massive window that hadwon first runnerup for the Window Prize the previous year. Hanging from the ceilingwere three huge banners, one with the word “In” written on it, one with the word“Auction” written on it, and one last one, twice as big as the others, with a hugeportrait of Gunther . Standing on the floor were at least two hundred people, and theBaudelaires could tell that it was a very in crowd. Almost everyone was wearingpinstripe suits, sipping tall frosty glasses of parsley soda, and eating salmon puffsoffered by some costumed waiters from Café Salmonella, which had apparently beenhired to cater the auction. The Baudelaires were in regular clothes rather thanpinstripes, and they were covered in dirt from the tiny, filthy room at the bottom ofthe elevator shaft, and in ashes from the Baudelaire lot where the hallway had ledthem. The in crowd would have frowned upon such attire had they noticed thechildren, but everyone was too busy gazing at the far end of the room to turn aroundand see who had walked through the award-winning door.For at the far end of Veblen Hall, underneath the biggest banner and in front of themassive window, Gunther was standing up on a small stage and speaking into amicrophone. On one side of him was a small glass vase with blue flowers painted onit, and on the other was Esmé, who was sitting in a fancy chair and gazing at Guntheras if he were the cat’s pajamas, a phrase which here means “a charming andhandsome gentleman instead of a cruel and dishonest villain.”“Lot #46, please,” Gunther was saying into the microphone. With all of theirexploration of dark passageways, the Baudelaires had almost forgotten that Guntherwas pretending that he wasn’t fluent in English. “Please, gentlemen and ladies, seethe vase with blue flowers. Vases in. Glass in. Flowers in, please, especially theflowers that are blue. Who bid?”“One hundred,” called out a voice from the crowd.“One hundred fifty,” another voice said.“Two hundred,” another said.“Two hundred fifty,” returned the person who had bid first.“Two hundred fifty-three,” another said.“he admitted to the children, “but I don’t like to argue with him, either. Well,Baudelaires, are you feeling better?”The children stood for a moment and looked up at their guardian. They noticedthat he had a half-eaten salmon puff in his hand, even though he had told the siblingsthat he didn’t like salmon. Jerome had probably not wanted to argue with the waitersin the salmon costumes, either. The Baudelaires looked at him, and then looked atone another. They did not feel better at all. They knew that Jerome would not want toargue with them if they told him once more about Gunther’s true identity. He wouldnot want to argue with Esmé if they told him about her part in the treacherousscheme. And he would not want to argue with Gunther if they told him that theQuagmires were trapped inside one of the items at the In Auction. The Baudelairesdid not feel better at all as they realized that the only person who could help themwas someone who could be knocked over with a feather.A Series of Unfortunate Events 6 - TheErsatz Elevator“Menrov?” Sunny said.“Menrov?” Jerome repeated, smiling down at the littlest Baudelaire. “What does‘Menrov?’ mean?”“I’ll tell you what it means,” Klaus said, thinking quickly. Perhaps there was a wayto have Jerome help them, without making him argue with anyone. “It means ‘Wouldyou do us a favor, Jerome?’”Violet and Sunny looked at their brother curiously. “Menrov?” didn’t mean“Would you do us a favor, Jerome?” and Klaus most certainly knew it. “Menrov?”meant something more like “Should we try to tell Jerome about Gunther and Esméand the Quagmire triplets?” but the sisters kept quiet, knowing that Klaus must havea good reason to lie to his guardian.“Of course I’ll do you a favor,” Jerome said. “What is it?”“My sisters and I would really like to own one of the lots at this auction,” Klaussaid. “We were wondering if you might buy it for us, as a gift.”“I suppose so,” Jerome said. “I didn’t know you three were interested in in items.”“Oh, yes,” Violet said, understanding at once what Klaus was up to. “We’re veryanxious to own Lot #50—V.F.D.”“V.F.D.?” Jerome asked. “What does that stand for?”“It’s a surprise,” Klaus said quickly. “Would you bid for it?”“If it’s very important to you,” Jerome said, “I suppose I will, but I don’t want youto get spoiled. You certainly arrived in time. It looks like Gunther is just finishing thebidding on those ballet shoes, so we’re coming right up to Lot #50. Let’s go watchthe auction from where I was standing. There’s an excellent view of the stage, andthere’s a friend of yours standing with me.”“A friend of ours?” Violet asked.“You’ll see,” Jerome said, and they did see. When they followed Jerome across theenormous room to watch the auction underneath the “In” banner, they found Mr. Poe,holding a glass of parsley soda and coughing into his white handkerchief.“You could knock me over with a feather,” Mr. Poe said, when he was donecoughing. “What are you Baudelaires doing here?”“What are you doing here?” Klaus asked. “You told us you would be on ahelicopter ride to a mountain peak.”Mr. Poe paused to cough into his white handkerchief again. “The reports about themountain peak turned out to be false,” Mr. Poe said, when the coughing fit hadpassed. “I now know for certain that the Quagmire twins are being forced to work ata glue factory nearby. I’m heading over there later, but I wanted to stop by the InAuction. Now that I’m Vice President in Charge of Orphan Affairs, I’m making moremoney, and my wife wanted to see if I could buy a bit of ocean decoration.”“But—” Violet started to say, but Mr. Poe shushed her.“Shush,” he said. “Gunther is beginning Lot #48, and that’s what I want to bid on.”“Please, Lot #48,” Gunther announced. His shiny eyes regarded the crowd frombehind his monocle, but he did not appear to spot the Baudelaires. “Is large statue offish, painted red, please. Very big, very in. Big enough to sleep inside this fish, if youare in the mood, please. Who bid?”“I bid, Gunther,” Mr. Poe called out. “One hundred.”“Two hundred,” called out another voice from the crowd.Klaus leaned in close to Mr. Poe to talk to him without Jerome hearing. “Mr. Poe,there’s something you should know about Gunther,” he said, thinking that if he couldconvince Mr. Poe, then the Baudelaires wouldn’t have to continue their charade, aword which here means “pretending to want V.F.D. so Jerome would bid on it andsave the Quagmires without knowing it.” “He’s really—”“An in auctioneer, I know,” Mr. Poe finished for him, and bid again. “Two hundredsix.”“Three hundred,” replied the other voice.“No, no,” Violet said. “He’s not really an auctioneer at all. He’s Count Olaf indisguise.”“Three hundred twelve,” Mr. Poe called out, and then frowned down at thechildren. “Don’t be ridiculous,” he said to them. “Count Olaf is a criminal. Gunther isjust a foreigner. I can’t remember the word for a fear of foreigners, but I am surprisedthat you children have such a fear.”“Four hundred,” called out the other voice.“The word is ‘xenophobia,’” Klaus said, “but it doesn’t apply here, becauseGunther’s not really a foreigner. He’s not even really Gunther!”Mr. Poe took out his handkerchief again, and the Baudelaires waited as he coughedinto it before replying. “You’re not making any sense,” he said finally. “Can weplease discuss this after I buy this ocean decoration? I bid four hundred nine!”“Five hundred,” called out the other voice.“I give up,” Mr. Poe said, and coughed into his handkerchief. “Five hundred is toomuch to pay for a big herring statue.”“Five hundred is highest bid, please,” Gunther said, and smiled at someone in thecrowd. “Please will the winner give money to Mrs. Squalor, please.”“Why, look, children,” Jerome said. “The doorman bought that big red fish.”“The doorman?” Mr. Poe said, as the doorman handed Esmé a sack of coins and,with difficulty, lifted the enormous red fish statue off the stage, his hands still hiddenin his long, long sleeves. “I’m surprised that a doorman can afford to buy anything atthe In Auction.”“He told me once he was an actor, too,” Jerome said. “He’s an interesting fellow.Care to meet him?”“That’s very nice of you,” Mr. Poe said, and coughed into his handkerchief. “I’mcertainly meeting all sorts of interesting people since my promotion.”The doorman was struggling past the children with his scarlet herring whenJerome tapped him on the shoulder. “Come meet Mr. Poe,” he said.“I don’t have time to meet anyone,” the doorman replied. “I have to get this in theboss’s truck and—” The doorman stopped mi sentence when he caught sight of theBaudelaire children. “You’re not supposed to be here!” he said. “You’re not supposedto have left the penthouse.”“Oh, but they’re feeling better now,” Jerome said, but the doorman wasn’tlistening. He had turned around—swatting several pinstripe members of the crowdwith his fish statue as he did so—and was calling up to the people on the stage. “Hey,boss!” he said, and both Esmé and Gunther turned to look as he pointed at the threeBaudelaires. “The orphans are here!”Esmé gasped, and she was so affected by the element of surprise that she almostdropped her sack of coins, but Gunther merely turned his head and looked directly atthe children. His eyes shone very, very brightly, even the one behind his monocle,and the Baudelaires were horrified to recognize his expression. Gunther was smilingas if he had just told a joke, and it was an expression he wore when his treacherousmind was working its hardest.“Orphans in,” he said, still insisting on pretending that he could not speak Englishproperly. “O.K. for orphans to be here, please.” Esmé looked curiously at Gunther,but then shrugged, and gestured to the doorman with a long-nailed hand thateverything was O.K. The doorman shrugged back at her, and then gave theBaudelaires a strange smile and walked out of the award-winning door. “We will skipLot #49, please,” Gunther continued. “We will bid on Lot #50, please, and then,please, auction is over.”“But what about all the other items?” someone called.“Skip ‘em,” Esmé said dismissively. “I’ve made enough money today.”“I never thought I’d hear Esmé say that,” Jerome murmured.“Lot #50, please,” Gunther announced, and pushed an enormous cardboard boxonto the stage. It was as big as the fish statue—just the right size for storing twosmall children. The box had “V.F.D.” printed on it in big black letters, and theBaudelaires saw that some tiny airholes had been poked in the top. The three siblingscould picture their friends, trapped inside the box and terrified that they were about tobe smuggled out of the city. “V.F.D. please,” Gunther said. “Who bid?”“I bid twenty,” Jerome said, and winked at the children.“What in the world is ‘V.F.D.’?” Mr. Poe asked.Violet knew that she had no time to try to explain everything to Mr. Poe. “It’s asurprise,” she said. “Stick around and find out.”“Fifty,” said another voice, and the Baudelaires turned to see that this second bidhad come from the man in sunglasses who had asked them to leave.“That doesn’t look like one of Gunther’s assistants,” Klaus whispered to hissisters.“You never know,” Violet replied. “They’re hard to spot.”“Fifty-five,” Jerome called out. Esmé frowned at him, and then gave theBaudelaires a very mean glare.“One hundred,” the man in sunglasses said.“Goodness, children,” Jerome said. “This is getting very expensive. Are you sureyou want this V.F.D.?”“You’re buying this for the children?” Mr. Poe said. “Please, Mr. Squalor, don’tspoil these youngsters.”“He’s not spoiling us!” Violet said, afraid that Gunther would stop the bidding.“Please, Jerome, please buy Lot #50 for us. We’ll explain everything later.”Jerome sighed. “Very well,” he said. “I guess it’s only natural that you’d wantsome in things, after spending time with Esmé. I bid one hundred eight.”“Two hundred,” the man in sunglasses said. The Baudelaires craned their necks totry and get a better look at him, but the man in sunglasses didn’t look any morefamiliar.“Two hundred four,” Jerome said, and then looked down at the children. “I won’tbid any higher, children. This is getting much too expensive, and bidding is too muchlike arguing for me to enjoy it.”“Three hundred,” the man in sunglasses said, and the Baudelaire children looked atone another in horror. What could they do? Their friends were about to slip out oftheir grasp.“Please, Jerome,” Violet said. “I beg of you, please buy this for us.”Jerome shook his head. “Someday you’ll understand,” he said. “It’s not worth it tospend money on silly in things.”Klaus turned to Mr. Poe. “Mr. Poe,” he said, “would you be willing to loan ussome money from the bank?”“To buy a cardboard box?” Mr. Poe said. “I should say not. Ocean decorations areone thing, but I don’t want you children wasting money on a box of something, nomatter what it is.”“Final bid is three hundred, please,” Gunther said, turning and giving Esmé amonocled wink. “Please, sir, if—”“Thousand!”Gunther stopped at the sound of a new bidder for Lot #50. Esmé‘s eyes widened,and she grinned at the thought of putting such an enormous sum in her pinstripepurse. The in crowd looked around, trying to figure out where this new voice wascoming from, but nobody suspected such a long and valuable word would originatein the mouth of a tiny baby who was no bigger than a salami.“Thousand!” Sunny shrieked again, and her siblings held their breath. They knew,of course, that their sister had no such sum of money, but they hoped that Gunthercould not see where this bid was coming from, and would be too greedy to find out.The ersatz auctioneer looked at Esmé, and then again out into the crowd.“Where in the world did Sunny get that kind of money?” Jerome asked Mr. Poe.“Well, when the children were in boarding school,” Mr. Poe answered, “Sunnyworked as a receptionist, but I had no idea that her salary was that high.”“Thousand!” Sunny insisted, and finally Gunther gave in.“The highest bid is now one thousand,” he said, and then remembered to pretendthat he wasn’t fluent in English. “Please,” he added.“Good grief!” the man in sunglasses said. “I’m not going to pay more than onethousand for V.F.D. It’s not worth it.”“It is to us,” Violet said fiercely, and the three children walked toward the stage.Every eye in the crowd fell on the siblings as they left an ashy trail behind them ontheir way to the cardboard box. Jerome looked confused. Mr. Poe looked befuddled, aword which here means “as confused as Jerome.” Esmé looked vicious. The man insunglasses looked like he had lost an auction. And Gunther kept smiling, as if a jokehe had told was only getting funnier and funnier. Violet and Klaus climbed up on thestage and then hoisted Sunny up alongside them, and the three orphans lookedfiercely at the terrible man who had imprisoned their friends.“Give your thousand, please, to Mrs. Squalor,” Gunther said, grinning down at thechildren. “And then auction is over.”“The only thing that is over,” Klaus said, “is your horrible plan.”“Silko!” Sunny agreed, and then, using her teeth even though they were still sorefrom climbing up the elevator shaft, the youngest Baudelaire bit into the cardboardbox and began ripping it apart, hoping that she wasn’t hurting Duncan and IsadoraQuagmire as she did so.“Wait a minute, kids!” Esmé snarled, getting out of her fancy chair and stompingover to the box. “You can’t open the box until you give me the money. That’sillegal!”“What is illegal,” Klaus said, “is auctioning off children. And soon this wholeroom will see that you have broken the law!”“What’s this?” Mr. Poe asked, striding toward the stage. Jerome followed him,looking from the orphans to his wife in confusion.“The Quagmire triplets are in this box,” Violet explained, helping her sister tear itopen. “Gunther and Esmé are trying to smuggle them out of the country.”“What?” Jerome cried. “Esmé, is this true?”Esmé did not reply, but in a moment everyone would see if it was true or not. Thechildren had torn away a large section of the cardboard, and they could see a layer ofwhite paper inside, as if Gunther had wrapped up the Quagmires the way you mighthave the butcher wrap up a pair of chicken breasts.“Hang on, Duncan !” Violet called, into the paper. “Just a few more seconds,Isadora! We’re getting you out of there!”Mr. Poe frowned, and coughed into his white handkerchief. “Now look here,Baudelaires,” he said sternly, when his coughing spell was over, “I have reliableinformation that the Quagmires are in a glue factory, not inside a cardboard box.”“We’ll see about that,” Klaus said, and Sunny gave the box another big bite. Witha loud shredding sound it split right down the middle, and the contents of the boxspilled out all over the stage. It is necessary to use the expression “a red herring” todescribe what was inside the cardboard box. A red herring, of course, is a type offish, but it is also an expression that means “a distracting and misleading clue.”Gunther had used the initials V.F.D. on the box to mislead the Baudelaires intothinking that their friends were trapped inside, and I’m sorry to tell you that theBaudelaires did not realize it was a red herring until they looked around the stage andsaw what the box contained.“Of course,” the man in sunglasses said. He approached the stage and removed hissunglasses, and the Baudelaires could see that he wasn’t one of Gunther’s associatesafter all. He was just a bidder, in a pinstripe suit. “I was going to give them to mybrother for a birthday present. They’re Very Fancy Doilies. What else could V.F.D.stand for?”“Yes,” Gunther said, smiling at the children. “What else could it stand for, please?”“I don’t know,” Violet said, “but the Quagmires didn’t find out a secret aboutfancy napkins. Where have you put them, Olaf?”“What is Olaf, please?” Gunther asked.“Now, Violet,” Jerome said. “We agreed that we wouldn’t argue about Guntheranymore. Please excuse these children, Gunther. I think they must be ill.”“We’re not ill!” Klaus cried. “We’ve been tricked! This box of doilies was a redherring!”“But the red herring was Lot #48,” someone in the crowd said.“Children, I’m very disturbed by your behavior,” Mr. Poe said. “You look like youhaven’t washed in a week. You’re spending your money on ridiculous items. You runaround accusing everybody of being Count Olaf in disguise. And now you’ve made abig mess of doilies on the floor. Someone is likely to trip and fall on all these slipperynapkins. I would have thought that the Squalors would be raising you better thanthis.”“Well, we’re not going to raise them anymore,” Esmé said. “Not after they’vemade such a spectacle of themselves. Mr. Poe, I want these terrible children placedout of my care. It’s not worth it to have orphans, even if they’re in.”“Esmé!” Jerome cried. “They lost their parents! Where else can they go?”“Don’t argue with me,” Esmé snapped, “and I’ll tell you where they can go. Theycan—”“With me, please,” Gunther said, and placed one of his scraggly hands on Violet’sshoulder. Violet remembered when this treacherous villain had plotted to marry her,and shuddered underneath his greedy fingers. “I am loving of the children. I would behappy, please, to raise three children of my own.” He put his other scraggly hand onKlaus’s shoulder, and then stepped forward as if he was going to put one of his bootson Sunny’s shoulder so all three Baudelaires would be locked in a sinister embrace.But Gunther’s foot did not land on Sunny’s shoulder. It landed on a doily, and in asecond Mr. Poe’s prediction that someone would trip and fall came true. With apapery thump! Gunther was suddenly on the ground, his arms flailing wildly in thedoilies and his legs flailing madly on the floor of the stage. “Please!” he shouted ashe hit the ground, but his wiggling limbs only made him slip more, and the doiliesbegan to spread out across the stage and fall to the floor of Veblen Hall. TheBaudelaires watched the fancy napkins flutter around them, making flimsy,whispering sounds as they fell, but then they heard two weighty sounds, one after theother, as if Gunther’s fall had made something heavier fall to the floor, and when theyturned their heads to follow the sound, they saw Gunther’s boots lying on the floor,one at Jerome’s feet and one at Mr. Poe’s.“Please!” Gunther shouted again, as he struggled to stand up, but when he finallygot to his feet, everyone else in the room was looking at them.“Look!” the man who had been wearing sunglasses said. “The auctioneer wasn’twearing any socks! That’s not very polite!”“And look!” someone else said. “He has a doily stuck between two of his toes!That’s not very comfortable!”“And look!” Jerome said. “He has a tattoo of an eye on his ankle! He’s notGunther!”“He’s not an auctioneer!” Mr. Poe cried. “He’s not even a foreigner! He’s CountOlaf!”“He’s more than Count Olaf,” Esmé said, walking slowly toward the terriblevillain. “He’s a genius! He’s a wonderful acting teacher! And he’s the handsomest,innest man in town!”“Don’t be absurd!” Jerome said. “Ruthless kidnapping villains aren’t in!”“You’re right,” said Count Olaf, and what a relief it is to call him by his propername. Olaf tossed away his monocle and put his arm around Esmé. “We’re not in.We’re out— out of the city! Come on, Esmé!”With a shriek of laughter, Olaf took Esmé‘s hand and leaped from the stage,elbowing aside the in crowd as he began running toward the exit.“They’re escaping!” Violet cried, and jumped off the stage to chase after them.Klaus and Sunny followed her as fast as their legs could carry them, but Olaf andEsmé had longer legs, which in this case was just as unfair an advantage as theelement of surprise. By the time the Baudelaires had run to the banner with Gunther’sface on it, Olaf and Esmé had reached the banner with “Auction” printed on it, andby the time the children reached that banner, the two villains had run past the “In”banner and through the award-winning door of Veblen Hall.“Egad!” Mr. Poe cried. “We can’t let that dreadful man escape for the sixth time!After him, everyone! That man is wanted for a wide variety of violent and financialcrimes!”The in crowd sprang into action, and began chasing after Olaf and Esmé, and youmay choose to believe, as this story nears its conclusion, that with so many peoplechasing after this wretched villain, it would be impossible for him to escape. Youmay wish to close this book without finishing it, and imagine that Olaf and Esméwere captured, and that the Quagmire triplets were rescued, and that the true meaningof V.F.D. was discovered and that the mystery of the secret hallway to the ruinedBaudelaire mansion was solved and that everyone held a delightful picnic tocelebrate all this good fortune and that there were enough ice cream sandwiches to goaround. I certainly wouldn’t blame you for imagining these things, because I imaginethem all the time. Late at night, when not even the map of the city can comfort me, Iclose my eyes and imagine all those happy comforting things surrounding theBaudelaire children, instead of all those doilies that surrounded them and brought yetanother scoop of misfortune into their lives. Because when Count Olaf and EsméSqualor flung open the door of Veblen Hall, they let in an afternoon breeze that madeall the very fancy doilies flutter over the Baudelaires’ heads and then settle backdown on the floor behind them, and in one slippery moment the entire in crowd wasfalling all over one another in a papery, pinstripe blur. Mr. Poe fell on Jerome. Jeromefell on the man who had been wearing sunglasses, and his sunglasses fell on thewoman who had bid highest on Lot #47. That woman dropped her chocolate balletslippers, and those slippers fell on Count Olaf’s boots, and those boots fell on threemore doilies that made four more people slip and fall on one another and soon theentire crowd was in a hopeless tangle. But the Baudelaires did not even glance backto see the latest grief that the doilies had caused. They kept their eyes on the pair ofloathsome people who were running down the steps of Veblen Hall toward a bigblack pickup truck. Behind the wheel of the pickup truck was the doorman, who hadfinally done the sensible thing and rolled up his oversized sleeves, but that must havebeen a difficult task, for as the children gazed into the truck they caught a glimpse oftwo hooks where the doorman’s hands should have been.“The hook-handed man!” Klaus cried. “He was right under our noses the entiretime!”Count Olaf turned to sneer at the children just as he reached the pickup truck. “Hemight have been right under your noses,” he snarled, “but soon he will be at yourthroats. I’ll be back, Baudelaires! Soon the Quagmire sapphires will be mine, but Ihaven’t forgotten about your fortune!”“Gonope?” Sunny shrieked, and Violet was quick to translate.“Where are Duncan and Isadora?” she said. “Where have you taken them?”Olaf and Esmé looked at one another, and burst into laughter as they slipped intothe black truck. Esmé jerked a long-nailed thumb toward the flatbed, which is theword for the back part of a pickup where things are stored. “We used two red herringsto fool you,” she said, as the truck’s engine roared into life. The children could see, inthe back of the truck, the big red herring that had been Lot #48 in the In Auction.“The Quagmires!” Klaus cried. “Olaf has them trapped inside that statue!” Theorphans raced down the steps of the hall, and once again, you may find it morepleasant to put down this book, and close your eyes, and imagine a better ending tothis tale than the one that I must write. You may imagine, for instance, that as theBaudelaires reached the truck, they heard the sound of the engine stalling, instead ofthe tooting of the horn as the hook-handed man drove his bosses away. You mayimagine that the children heard the sounds of the Quagmires escaping from the statueof the herring, instead of the word “Toodle-oo!” coming from Esmé‘s villainousmouth. And you may imagine the sound of police sirens as Count Olaf was caught atlast, instead of the weeping of the Baudelaire orphans as the black truck rounded thecorner and disappeared from view.But your imaginings would be ersatz, as all imaginings are. They are as untrue asthe ersatz auctioneer who found the Baudelaires at the Squalors’ penthouse, and theersatz elevator outside their front door and the ersatz guardian who pushed themdown the deep pit of the elevator shaft. Esmé hid her evil plan behind her reputationas the city’s sixth most important financial advisor, and Count Olaf hid his identitybehind a monocle and some black boots, and the dark passageway hid its secretsbehind a pair of sliding elevator doors, but as much as it pains me to tell you that theBaudelaire orphans stood on the steps of Veblen Hall, weeping with anguish andfrustration as Count Olaf rode away with the Quagmire triplets, I cannot hide theunfortunate truths of the Baudelaires’ lives behind an ersatz happy ending.The Baudelaire orphans stood on the steps of Veblen Hall, weeping with anguishand frustration as Count Olaf rode away with the Quagmire triplets, and the sight ofMr. Poe emerging from the award-winning door, with a doily in his hair and a look ofpanic in his eye, only made them weep harder.“I’ll call the police,” Mr. Poe said, “and they’ll capture Count Olaf in no time atall,” but the Baudelaires knew that this statement was as ersatz as Gunther’s improperEnglish. They knew that Olaf was far too clever to be captured by the police, and I’msorry to say that by the time two detectives found the big black pickup truck,abandoned outside St. Carl’s Cathedral with the motor still running, Olaf had alreadytransferred the Quagmires from the red herring to a shiny black instrument case,which he told the bus driver was a tuba he was bringing to his aunt. The threesiblings watched Mr. Poe scurry back into Veblen Hall to ask members of the incrowd where he could find a phone booth, and they knew that the banker was notgoing to be of any help.“I think Mr. Poe will be a great deal of help,” Jerome said, as he walked out ofVeblen Hall and sat down on the steps to try to comfort the children. “He’s going tocall the police, and give them a description of Olaf.”“But Olaf is always in disguise,” Violet said miserably, wiping her eyes. “Younever know what he’ll look like until you see him.”“Well, I’m going to make sure you never see him again,” Jerome promised. “Esmémay have left–and I’m not going to argue with her—but I’m still your guardian, andI’m going to take you far, far away from here, so far away that you’ll forget all aboutCount Olaf and the Quagmires and everything else.”“Forget about Olaf?” Klaus asked. “How can we forget about him? We’ll neverforget his treachery, no matter where we live.”“And we’ll never forget the Quagmires, either,” Violet said. “I don’t want to forgetabout them. We have to figure out where he’s taking our friends, and how to rescuethem.”“Tercul!” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “And we don’twant to forget about everything else, either-like the underground hallway that led toour ruinedmansion , and the real meaning of V.F.D.!”“My sister is right,” Klaus said. “We have to track down Olaf and learn all thesecrets he’s keeping from us.”“We’re not going to track down Olaf,” Jerome said, shuddering at the thought.“We’ll be lucky if he doesn’t track us down. As your guardian, I cannot allow you totry to find such a dangerous man. Wouldn’t you rather live safely with me?”“Yes,” Violet admitted, “but our friends are in grave danger. We must go andrescuethem .”“Well, I don’t want to argue,” Jerome said. “If you’ve made up your mind, thenyou’ve made up your mind. I’ll tell Mr. Poe to find you another guardian.”“You mean you won’t help us?” Klaus asked.Jerome sighed, and kissed each Baudelaire on the forehead. “You children are verydear to me,” he said, “but I don’t have your courage. Your mother always said Iwasn’t brave enough, and I guess she was right. Good luck, Baudelaires. I think youwill need it.”The children watched in amazement as Jerome walked away, not even lookingback at the three orphans he was leaving behind. They found their eyes brimmingwith tears once more as they watched him disappear from sight. They would neversee the Squalor penthouse again, or spend another night in their bedrooms, or spendeven a moment in their oversized pinstripe suits. Though he was not as dastardly asEsmé or Count Olaf or the hook-handed man, Jerome was still an ersatz guardian,because a real guardian is supposed to provide a home, with a place to sleep andsomething to wear, and all Jerome had given them in the end was “Good luck.”Jerome reached the end of the block and turned left, and the Baudelaires were onceagain alone in the world.Violet sighed, and stared down the street in the direction Olaf had escaped. “I hopemy inventing skills don’t fail me,” she said, “because we’re going to need more thangood luck to rescue the Quagmire triplets.”Klaus sighed, and stared down the street in the direction of the ashy remains oftheir first home. “I hope my research skills don’t fail me,” he said, “because we’regoing to need more than good luck to solve the mystery of the hallway and theBaudelaire mansion.”Sunny sighed, and watched as a lone doily blew down the stairs. “Bite,” she said,and she meant that she hoped her teeth wouldn’t fail her, because they’d need morethan good luck to discover what V.F.D. really stood for.The Baudelaires looked at one another with faint smiles. They were smilingbecause they didn’t think Violet’s inventing skills would fail, any more than Klaus’sresearch skills would fail or Sunny’s teeth would fail. But the children also knew thatthey wouldn’t fail each other, as Jerome had failed them and as Mr. Poe was failingthem now, as he dialed the wrong number and was talking to a Vietnamese restaurantinstead of the police. No matter how many misfortunes had befallen them and nomatter how many ersatz things they would encounter in the future, the Baudelaireorphans knew they could rely on each other for the rest of their lives, and this, atleast, felt like the one thing in the world that was true.About the AuthorLEMONY SNICKET’S extended family, if they were alive, would describe him as adistinguished scholar, an amateur connoisseur, and an outright gentleman. Unfortunatelythis description has been challenged of late, but HarperCollins continues to support hisresearch and writing on the lives of the Baudelaire orphans.BRETT HELQUIST was born in Ganado, Arizona, grew up in Orem, Utah, and nowlives in New York City. He earned a bachelor’s degree in fine arts from Brigham YoungUniversity and has been illustrating ever since. His art has appeared in many publications,including Cricket magazine and The New York Times.To My Kind Editor,I am sorry this paper is sopping wet, but I am writing this from the place where theQuagmire Triplets were hidden.The next time you run out of milk, buy a new carton at Cash Register #19 of theNot-Very-Supermarket. When you arrive home, you will find my description of theBaudelaires’ recent experiences in this dreadful town entitled THE VILE VILLAGEhas been tucked into your grocery sack along with a burnt-out torch, the tip of aharpoon, and a chart of the migration paths of the V.F.D. crows. There is also a copyof the official portrait of the Council of Elders, to help Mr. Helquist with hisillustrations.Remember, you are my last hope that the tales of the Baudelaire orphans can betold to the general public.With all due respect,Lemony SnicketA Series of Unfortunate Events 7 - TheVile VillageASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the SeventhThe Vile VillageLemony SnicketC H A P T E ROneNo matter who you are, no matter where you live, and no matter how many peopleare chasing you, what you don’t read is often as important as what you do read. Forinstance, if you are walking in the mountains, and you don’t read the sign that says“Beware of Cliff” because you are busy reading a joke book instead, you maysuddenly find yourself walking on air rather than on a sturdy bed of rocks. If you arebaking a pie for your friends, and you read an article entitled “How to Build a Chair”instead of a cookbook, your pie will probably end up tasting like wood and nailsinstead of like crust and fruity filling. And if you insist on reading this book insteadof something more cheerful, you will most certainly find yourself moaning in despairinstead of wriggling in delight, so if you have any sense at all you will put this bookdown and pick up another one. I know of a book, for instance, called The Littlest Elf,which tells the story of a teensy-weensy little man who scurries around Fairylandhaving all sorts of adorable adventures, and you can see at once that you shouldprobably read The Littlest Elf and wriggle over the lovely things that happened tothis imaginary creature in a made-up place, instead of reading this book and moaningover the terrible things that happened to the three Baudelaire orphans in the villagewhere I am now typing these very words. The misery, woe, and treachery containedin the pages of this book are so dreadful that it is important that you don’t read anymore of it than you already have. The Baudelaire orphans, at the time this storybegins, were certainly wishing that they weren’t reading the newspaper that was infront of their eyes. A newspaper, as I’m sure you know, is a collection of supposedlytrue stories written down by writers who either saw them happen or talked to peoplewho did. These writers are called journalists, and like telephone operators, butchers,ballerinas, and people who clean up after horses, journalists can sometimes makemistakes. This was certainly the case with the front page of the morning edition ofThe Daily Punctilio, which the Baudelaire children were reading in the office of Mr.Poe. “twins captured by count omar,” the headline read, and the three siblings lookedat one another in amazement over the mistakes that The Daily Punctilio’s journalistshad made.“‘Duncan and Isadora Quagmire,’” Violet read out loud, “‘twin children who arethe only known surviving members of the Quagmire family, have been kidnapped bythe notorious Count Omar. Omar is wanted by the police for a variety of dreadfulcrimes, and is easily recognized by his one long eyebrow and the tattoo of an eye onhis left ankle. Omar has also kidnapped Esmé Squalor, the city’s sixth most importantfinancial advisor, for reasons unknown.’ Ugh!” The word “Ugh!” was not in thenewspaper, of course, but was something Violet uttered herself as a way of saying shewas too disgusted to read any further. “If I invented something as sloppily as thisnewspaper writes its stories,” she said, “it would fall apart immediately.” Violet, whoat fourteen was the eldest Baudelaire child, was an excellent inventor, and spent agreat deal of time with her hair tied up in a ribbon to keep it out of her eyes as shethought of new mechanical devices.“And if I read books as sloppily,” Klaus said, “I wouldn’t remember one singlefact.” Klaus, the middle Baudelaire, had read more books than just about anyone hisown age, which was almost thirteen. At many crucial moments, his sisters had reliedon him to remember a helpful fact from a book he had read years before.“Krechin!” Sunny said. Sunny, the youngest Baudelaire, was a baby scarcelylarger than a watermelon. Like many infants, Sunny often said words that weredifficult to understand, like “Krechin!” which meant something along the lines of“And if I used my four big teeth to bite something as sloppily, I wouldn’t even leaveone toothmark!”Violet moved the paper closer to one of the reading lamps Mr. Poe had in hisoffice, and began to count the errors that had appeared in the few sentences she hadread. “For one thing,” she said, “the Quagmires aren’t twins. They’re triplets. Thefact that their brother perished in the fire that killed their parents doesn’t change theirbirth identity.”“Of course it doesn’t,” Klaus agreed. “And they were kidnapped by Count Olaf,not Omar. It’s difficult enough that Olaf is always in disguise, but now the newspaperhas disguised his name, too.”“Esmé!” Sunny added, and her siblings nodded. The youngest Baudelaire wastalking about the part of the article that mentioned Esmé Squalor. Esmé and herhusband, Jerome, had recently been the Baudelaires’ guardians, and the children hadseen with their own eyes that Esmé had not been kidnapped by Count Olaf. Esmé hadsecretly helped Olaf with his evil scheme, and had escaped with him at the lastminute.“And ‘for reasons unknown’ is the biggest mistake of all,” Violet said glumly.“The reasons aren’t unknown. We know them. We know the reasons Esmé, CountOlaf, and all of Olaf’s associates have done so many terrible things. It’s becausethey’re terrible people.” Violet put down The Daily Punctilio, looked around Mr.Poe’s office, and joined her siblings in a sad, deep sigh. The Baudelaire orphans weresighing not only for the things they had read, but for the things they hadn’t read. Thearticle had not mentioned that both the Quagmires and the Baudelaires had lost theirparents in terrible fires, and that both sets of parents had left enormous fortunesbehind, and that Count Olaf had cooked up all of his evil plans just to get a hold ofthese fortunes for himself. The newspaper had failed to note that the Quagmiretriplets had been kidnapped while trying to help the Baudelaires escape from CountOlaf’s clutches, and that the Baudelaires had almost managed to rescue theQuagmires, only to find them snatched away once more. The journalists who wrotethe story had not included the fact that Duncan Quagmire, who was a journalisthimself, and Isadora Quagmire, who was a poet, each kept a notebook with themwherever they went, and that in their notebooks they had written down a terriblesecret they had discovered about Count Olaf, but that all the Baudelaire orphansknew of this secret were the initials V.F.D., and that Violet, Klaus, and Sunny werealways thinking of these three letters and what ghastly thing they could stand for. Butmost of all, the Baudelaire orphans had read no word about the fact that theQuagmire triplets were good friends of theirs, and that the three siblings were veryworried about the Quagmires, and that every night when they tried to go to sleep,their heads were filled with terrible images of what could be happening to theirfriends, who were practically the only happy thing in the Baudelaires’ lives since theyreceived the news of the fire that killed their parents and began the series ofunfortunate events that seemed to follow them wherever they went. The article in TheDaily Punctilio probably did not mention these details because the journalist whowrote the story did not know about them, or did not think they were important, butthe Baudelaires knew about them, and the three children sat together for a fewmoments and thought quietly about these very, very important details.A fit of coughing, coming from the doorway of the office, brought them out oftheir thoughts, and the Baudelaires turned to see Mr. Poe coughing into a whitehandkerchief. Mr. Poe was a banker who had been placed in charge of the orphans’care after the fire, and I’m sorry to say that he was extremely prone to error, a phrasewhich here means “always had a cough, and had placed the three Baudelaire childrenin an assortment of dangerous positions.” The first guardian Mr. Poe found for theyoungsters was Count Olaf himself, and the most recent guardian he had found forthem was Esmé Squalor, and in between he had placed the children in a variety ofcircumstances that turned out to be just as unpleasant. This morning they weresupposed to learn about their new home, but so far all Mr. Poe had done was haveseveral coughing fits and leave them alone with a poorly written newspaper.“Good morning, children,” Mr. Poe said. “I’m sorry I kept you waiting, but eversince I was promoted to Vice President in Charge of Orphan Affairs I’ve been very,very busy. Besides, finding you a new home has been something of a chore.” Hewalked over to his desk, which was covered in piles of papers, and sat down in alarge chair. “I’ve put calls in to a variety of distant relatives, but they’ve heard allabout the terrible things that tend to happen wherever you go. Understandably,they’re too skittish about Count Olaf to agree to take care of you. ‘Skittish’ means‘nervous,’ by the way. There’s one more — ”One of the three telephones on Mr. Poe’s desk interrupted him with a loud, uglyring.“Excuse me,” the banker said to the children, and began to speak into the receiver.“Poe here. O.K. O.K. O.K. I thought so. O.K. O.K. Thank you, Mr. Fagin.” Mr. Poe hungup the phone and made a mark on one of the papers on his desk. “That was a nineteenthcousin of yours,” Mr. Poe said, “and a last hope of mine. I thought I could persuade him totake you in, just for a couple of months, but he refused. I can’t say I blame him. I’mconcerned that your reputation as troublemakers is even ruining the reputation of mybank.”“But we’re not troublemakers,” Klaus said. “Count Olaf is the troublemaker.”Mr. Poe took the newspaper from the children and looked at it carefully. “Well,I’m sure the story in The Daily Punctilio will help the authorities finally capture Olaf,and then your relatives will be less skittish.”“But the story is full of mistakes,” Violet said. “The authorities won’t even knowhis real name. The newspaper calls him Omar.”“The story was a disappointment to me, too,” Mr. Poe said. “The journalist saidthat the paper would put a photograph of me next to the article, with a caption aboutmy promotion. I had my hair cut for it especially. It would have made my wife andsons very proud to see my name in the papers, so I understand why you’redisappointed that the article is about the Quagmire twins, instead of being aboutyou.”“We don’t care about having our names in the papers,” Klaus said, “and besides,the Quagmires are triplets, not twins.”“The death of their brother changes their birth identity,” Mr. Poe explained sternly,“but I don’t have time to talk about this. We need to find — ”Another one of his phones rang, and Mr. Poe excused himself again. “Poe here,”he said into the receiver. “No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. I don’t care. Good-bye.” Hehung up the phone and coughed into his white handkerchief before wiping his mouthand turning once more to the children. “Well, that phone call solved all of yourproblems,” he said simply.The Baudelaires looked at one another. Had Count Olaf been arrested? Had theQuagmires been saved? Had someone invented a way to go back in time and rescuetheir parents from the terrible fire? How could all of their problems have been solvedwith one phone call to a banker?“Plinn?” Sunny asked.Mr. Poe smiled. “Have you ever heard the aphorism,” he said, “‘It takes a villageto raise a child’?”The children looked at one another again, a little less hopefully this time. Thequoting of an aphorism, like the angry barking of a dog or the smell of overcookedbroccoli, rarely indicates that something helpful is about to happen. An aphorism ismerely a small group of words arranged in a certain order because they sound goodthat way, but oftentimes people tend to say them as if they were saying somethingvery mysterious and wise.“I know it probably sounds mysterious to you,” Mr. Poe continued, “but theaphorism is actually very wise.’It takes a village to raise a child’ means that theresponsibility for taking care of youngsters belongs to everyone in the community.”“I think I read something about this aphorism in a book about the Mbuti pygmies,”Klaus said. “Are you sending us to live in Africa ?”“Don’t be silly,” Mr. Poe said, as if the millions of people who lived in Africa wereall ridiculous. “That was the city government on the telephone. A number of villagesjust outside the city have signed up for a new guardian program based on theaphorism ‘It takes a village to raise a child.’ Orphans are sent to these villages, andeveryone who lives there raises them together. Normally, I approve of moretraditional family structures, but this is really quite convenient, and your parents’ willinstructs that you be raised in the most convenient way possible.”“Do you mean that the entire town would be in charge of us?” Violet asked.“That’s a lot of people.”“Well, I imagine they would take turns,” Mr. Poe said, stroking his chin. “It’s notas if you would be tucked into bed by three thousand people at once.”“Snoita!” Sunny shrieked. She meant something like “I prefer to be tucked intobed by my siblings, not by strangers!” but Mr. Poe was busy looking through hispapers on his desk and didn’t answer her.“Apparently I was mailed a brochure about this program several weeks ago,” hesaid, “but I guess it got lost somewhere on my desk. Oh, here it is. Take a look foryourselves.”Mr. Poe reached across his desk to hand them a colorful brochure, and theBaudelaire orphans took a look for themselves. On the front was the aphorism ‘Ittakes a village to raise a child’ written in flowery letters, and inside the brochure werephotographs of children with such huge smiles that the Baudelaires’ mouths achedjust to look at them. A few paragraphs explained that 99 percent of the orphansparticipating in this program were overjoyed to have whole villages taking care ofthem, and that all the towns listed on the back page were eager to serve as guardiansfor any interested children who had lost their parents. The three Baudelaires looked atthe grinning photographs and read the flowery aphorism and felt a little flutter intheir stomachs. They felt more than a little nervous about having a whole town for aguardian. It was strange enough when they were in the care of various relatives. Howstrange would it feel if hundreds of people were trying to act as substituteBaudelaires?“Do you think we would be safe from Count Olaf,” Violet asked hesitantly, “if welived with an entire village?”“I should think so,” Mr. Poe said, and coughed into his handkerchief. “With awhole village looking after you, you’ll probably be the safest you’ve ever been. Plus,thanks to the story in The Daily Punctilio, I’m sure Omar will be captured in notime.”“0laf,” Klaus corrected.“Yes, yes,” Mr. Poe said. “I meant to say ‘Omar.’ Now, what villages are listed inthe brochure? You children can choose your new hometown, if you like.”Klaus turned the brochure over and read from the list of towns. “Paltryville,” hesaid. “That’s where the Lucky Smells Lumbermill was. We had a terrible time there.”“Calten!” Sunny cried, which meant something like “I wouldn’t return there for allthe tea in China !”“The next village on the list is Tedia,” Klaus said. “That name is familiar to me.”“That’s near where Uncle Monty lived,” Violet said. “Let’s not live there — it’llmake us miss Uncle Monty even more than we already do.”Klaus nodded in agreement. “Besides,” he said, “the town is near Lousy Lane , soit probably smells like horseradish. Here’s a village I’ve never heard of — Ophelia.”“No, no,” Mr. Poe said. “I won’t have you living in the same town as the OpheliaBank. It’s one of my least favorite banks, and I don’t want to have to walk by it whenI visit you.”“Zounce!” Sunny said, which meant “That’s ridiculous!” but Klaus nudged herwith his elbow and pointed to the next village listed on the brochure, and Sunnyquickly changed her tune, a phrase which here means “immediately said ‘Gounce!’instead, which meant something along the lines of ‘Let’s live there!’”“Gounce indeed,” Klaus agreed, and showed Violet what he and Sunny weretalking about. Violet gasped, and the three siblings looked at one another and felt alittle flutter in their stomachs again. But this was less of a nervous flutter and more ofa hopeful one — a hope that maybe Mr. Poe’s last phone call really had solved alltheir problems, and that maybe what they read right here in the brochure would turnout to be more important than what they didn’t read in the newspaper. For at thebottom of the list of villages, below Paltryville and Tedia and Ophelia, was the mostimportant thing they had read all morning. Printed in the flowery script, on the backpage of the brochure Mr. Poe had given them, were the letters V.F.D.When you are traveling by bus, it is always difficult to decide whether you shouldsit in a seat by the window, a seat on the aisle, or a seat in the middle. If you take anaisle seat, you have the advantage of being able to stretch your legs whenever youlike, but you have the disadvantage of people walking by you, and they canaccidentally step on your toes or spill something on your clothing. If you take awindow seat, you have the advantage of getting a clear view of the scenery, but youhave the disadvantage of watching insects die as they hit the glass. If you take amiddle seat, you have neither of these advantages, and you have the addeddisadvantage of people leaning all over you when they fall asleep. You can see atonce why you should always arrange to hire a limousine or rent a mule rather thantake the bus to your destination.The Baudelaire orphans, however, did not have the money to hire a limousine, andit would have taken them several weeks to reach V.F.D. by mule, so they weretraveling to their new home by bus. The children had thought that it might take a lotof effort to convince Mr. Poe to choose V.F.D. as their new village guardian, but rightwhen they saw the three initials on the brochure, one of Mr. Poe’s telephones rang,and by the time he was off the phone he was too busy to argue. All he had time to dowas make arrangements with the city government and take them to the bus station.As he saw them off — a phrase which here means “put the Baudelaires on a bus,rather than doing the polite thing and taking them to their new home personally” —he instructed them to report to the Town Hall of V.F.D., and made them promise notto do anything that would ruin his bank’s reputation. Before they knew it, Violet wassitting in an aisle seat, brushing dirt off her coat and rubbing her sore toes, and Klauswas sitting in a window seat gazing at the scenery through a layer of dead bugs.Sunny sat between them, gnawing on the armrest.“No lean!” she said sternly, and her brother smiled.“Don’t worry, Sunny,” he said. “We’ll make sure not to lean on you if we fallasleep. We don’t have much time for napping, anyway — we should be at V.F.D. anyminute now.”“What do you think it could stand for?” Violet asked. “Neither the brochure northe map at the bus station showed anything more than the three initials.”“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “Do you think we should have told Mr. Poe about theV.F.D. secret? Maybe he could have helped us.”“I doubt it,” Violet said. “He hasn’t been very helpful before. I wish theQuagmires were here. I bet they could help us.”“I wish the Quagmires were here even if they couldn’t help us,” Klaus said, andhis sisters nodded in agreement. No Baudelaire had to say anything more about howworried they were about the triplets, and they sat in silence for the rest of the ride,hoping that their arrival at V.F.D. would bring them closer to saving their friends.“V.F.D.!” the bus driver finally called out. “Next stop V.F.D.! If you look out thewindow, you can see the town coming up, folks!”“What does it look like?” Violet asked Klaus.Klaus peered out the window past the layer of dead bugs. “Flat,” he said.Violet and Sunny leaned over to look and saw that their brother had spoken thetruth.The countryside looked as if someone had drawn the line of the horizon — the word“horizon” here means “the boundary where the sky ends and the world begins” — andthen forgot to draw in anything else. The land stretched out as far as the eye could see, butthere was nothing for the eye to look at but flat, dry land and the occasional sheet ofnewspaper stirred up by the passing of the bus.“I don’t see any town at all,” Klaus said. “Do you suppose it’s underground?”“Novedri!” Sunny said, which meant “Living underground would be no fun atall!”“Maybe that’s the town over there,” Violet said, squinting to try and see as far asshe could. “You see? Way out by the horizon line, there’s a hazy black blur. It lookslike smoke, but maybe it’s just some buildings seen from far away.”“I can’t see it,” Klaus said. “That smushed moth is blocking it, I think. But a hazyblur could just be fata morgana.”“Fata?” Sunny asked.“Fata morgana is when your eyes play tricks on you, particularly in hot weather,”Klaus explained. “It’s caused by the distortion of light through alternate layers of hotand cool air. It’s also called a mirage, but I like the name ‘fata morgana’ better.”“Me too,” Violet agreed, “but let’s hope it’s not a mirage or fata morgana. Let’shope it’s V.F.D.”“V.F.D.!” the bus driver called, as the bus came to a stop. “V.F.D.! Everyone offfor V.F.D.!”The Baudelaires stood up, gathered their belongings, and walked down the aisle,but when they reached the open door of the bus they stopped and stared doubtfullyout at the flat and empty landscape.“Is this really the stop for V.F.D.?” Violet asked the driver. “I thought V.F.D. was atown.”“It is,” the driver replied. “Just walk toward that hazy black blur out there on thehorizon. I know it looks like — well, I can’t remember the phrase for when your eyesplay tricks on you — but it’s really the town.”“Couldn’t you take us a little closer?” Violet asked shyly. “We have a baby withus, and it looks like a long way to walk.”“I wish I could help you,” the bus driver said kindly, looking down at Sunny, “butthe Council of Elders has very strict rules. I have to let off all passengers for V.F.D.right here; otherwise I could be severely punished.”“Who are the Council of Elders?” Klaus asked.“Hey!” a voice called from the back of the bus. “Tell those kids to hurry up and getoff the bus! The open door is letting bugs in!”“Off you go, kids,” the bus driver said, and the Baudelaires stepped out of the busonto the flat land of V.F.D. The doors shut, and with a little wave the bus driver droveoff and left the children alone on the empty landscape. The siblings watched the busget smaller and smaller as it drove away, and then turned toward the hazy black blurof their new home.“Well, now I can see it,” Klaus said, squinting behind his glasses, “but I can’tbelieve it. It’s going to take the rest of the afternoon to walk all that way.”“Then we’d better get started,” Violet said, hoisting Sunny up on top of hersuitcase. “This piece of luggage has wheels,” she said to her sister, “so you can sit ontop of it and I can pull you along.”“Sanks!” Sunny said, which meant “That’s very considerate of you!” and theBaudelaires began their long walk toward the hazy black blur on the horizon. Aftereven the first few steps, the disadvantages of the bus ride seemed like small potatoes.“Small potatoes” is a phrase which has nothing to do with root vegetables thathappen to be tiny in size. Instead, it refers to the change in one’s feelings forsomething when it is compared with something else. If you were walking in the rain,for instance, you might be worried about getting wet, but if you turned the corner andsaw a pack of vicious dogs, getting wet would suddenly become small potatoes nextto getting chased down an alley and barked at, or possibly eaten. As the Baudelairesbegan their long journey toward V.F.D., dead bugs, stepped-on toes, and thepossibility of someone leaning on them became small potatoes next to the far moreunpleasant things they were encountering. Without anything else on the flat land toblow up against, the wind concentrated its efforts on Violet, a phrase which heremeans that before long her hair was so wildly tangled that it looked like it had neverseen a comb. Because Klaus was standing behind Violet, the wind didn’t blow on himmuch, but without anything else in the empty landscape to cling to, the dust on theground concentrated its efforts on the middle Baudelaire, and soon he was dusty fromhead to toe, as if it had been years since he’d had a shower. Perched on top of Violet’sluggage, Sunny was out of the way of the dust, but without anything else in thedesolate terrain to shine on, the sun concentrated its efforts on her, which meant thatshe was soon as sunburned as a baby who had spent six months at the seashore,instead of a few hours on top of a suitcase.But even as they approached the town, V.F.D. still looked as hazy as it did from faraway. As the children drew closer and closer to their new home, they could see anumber of buildings of different heights and widths, separated by streets both narrowand wide, and the Baudelaires could even see the tall skinny shapes of lampposts andflagpoles stretching out toward the sky. But everything they saw — from the tip ofthe highest building to the curve of the narrowest street — was pitch black, andseemed to be shaking slightly, as if the entire town were painted on a piece of cloththat was trembling in the wind. The buildings were trembling, and the lamppostswere trembling, and even the very streets were shaking ever so slightly, and it waslike no town the three Baudelaires had ever seen. It was a mystery, but unlike mostmysteries, once the children reached the outskirts of V.F.D. and learned what wascausing the trembling effect, they did not feel any better to have the mystery solved.The town was covered in crows. Nearly every inch of nearly every object had alarge black bird roosting on it and casting a suspicious eye on the children as theystood at the very edge of the village. There were crows sitting on the roofs of all thebuildings, perching on the windowsills, and squatting on the steps and on thesidewalks. Crows were covering all of the trees, from the very top branches to theroots poking out of the crow-covered ground, and were gathered in large groups onthe streets for crow conversations. Crows were covering the lampposts and flagpoles,and there were crows lying down in the gutters and resting between fence posts.There were even six crows crowded together on the sign that read “Town Hall,” withan arrow leading down a crow-covered street. The crows weren’t squawking orcawing, which is what crows often do, or playing the trumpet, which crowspractically never do, but the town was far from silent. The air was filled with thesounds the crows made as they moved around. Sometimes one crow would fly fromone perch to another, as if it had suddenly become bored roosting on the mailbox andthought it might be more fun to perch on the doorknob of a building. Occasionally,several crows would flutter their wings, as if they were stiff from sitting together on abench and wanted to stretch a little bit. And almost constantly, the crows would shiftin their places, trying to make themselves as comfortable as they could in suchcramped quarters. All this motion explained why the town had looked so shivery inthe distance, but it certainly didn’t make the Baudelaires feel any better, and theystood together in silence for quite some time, trying to find the courage to walkamong all the fluttering black birds.“I’ve read three books on crows,” Klaus said. “They’re perfectly harmless.”“Yes, I know,” Violet said. “It’s unusual to see so many crows in one place, butthey’re nothing to worry about. It’s small potatoes.”“Zimuster,” Sunny agreed, but the three children still did not take a step closer tothe crow-covered town. Despite what they had said to one another — that the crowswere harmless birds, that they had nothing to worry about, and “Zimuster,” whichmeant something along the lines of “It would be silly to be afraid of a bunch of birds”— the Baudelaires felt they were encountering some very large potatoes indeed.If I had been one of the Baudelaires myself, I would have stood at the edge oftown for the rest of my life, whimpering with fear, rather than take even one step intothe crow covered streets, but it only took the Baudelaires a few minutes to work upthe courage to walk through all of the muttering, scuffling birds to Town Hall.“This isn’t as difficult as I thought it might be,” Violet said, in a quiet voice so asnot to disturb the crows closest to her. “It’s not exactly small potatoes, but there’senough space between the groups of crows to step.”“That’s true,” Klaus said, his eyes on the sidewalk to avoid stepping on any crowtails. “And they tend to move aside, just a little bit, as we walk by.”“Racah,” Sunny said, crawling as carefully as she could. She meant somethingalong the lines of “It’s almost like walking through a quiet, but polite, crowd of veryshort people,” and her siblings smiled in agreement. Before too long, they hadwalked the entire block of the crow-lined street, and there at the far corner was a tall,impressive building that appeared to be made of white marble — at least, as far as theBaudelaires could tell, because it was as covered with crows as the rest of theneighborhood. Even the sign reading “Town Hall” looked like it read “wn Ha,”because three enormous crows were perched on it, gazing at the Baudelaires withtheir tiny beady eyes. Violet raised her hand as if to knock on the door, but thenpaused.“What’s the matter?” Klaus said.“Nothing,” Violet replied, but her hand still hung in the air. “I guess I’m just alittle skittish. After all, this is the Town Hall of V.F.D. For all we know, behind thisdoor may be the secret we’ve been looking for since the Quagmires were firstkidnapped.”“Maybe we shouldn’t get our hopes up,” Klaus said. “Remember, when we livedwith the Squalors, we thought we had solved the V.F.D. mystery, but we were wrong.We could be wrong this time, too.”“But we could be right,” Violet said, “and if we’re right, we should be prepared forwhatever terrible thing is behind this door.”“Unless we’re wrong,” Klaus pointed out. “Then we have nothing to be preparedfor.”“Gaksoo!” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of “There’s no pointin arguing, because we’ll never know whether we’re right or wrong until we knockon the door,” and before her siblings could answer her she crawled around Klaus’slegs and took the plunge, a phrase which here means “knocked firmly on the doorwith her tiny knuckles.”“Come in!” called a very grand voice, and the Baudelaires opened the door andfound themselves in a large room with a very high ceiling, a very shiny floor, and avery long bench, with very detailed portraits of crows hanging on the walls. In frontof the bench was a small platform where a woman in a motorcycle helmet wasstanding, and behind the platform were perhaps one hundred folding chairs, most ofwhich had a person sitting on them who was staring at the Baudelaire orphans. Butthe Baudelaire orphans were not staring back. The three children were staring so hardat the people sitting on the bench that they scarcely glanced at the folding chairs atall.On the bench, sitting stiffly side by side, were twenty-five people who had twothings in common. The first thing was that they were all quite old — the youngestperson on the bench, a woman sitting on the far end, looked about eighty-one years ofage, and everyone else looked quite a bit older. But the second thing they had incommon was far more interesting. At first glance it looked like a few crows hadflown in from the streets and roosted on the bench-sitters’ heads, but as theBaudelaires looked more closely, they saw that the crows did not blink their eyes, orflutter their wings or move at all in any way, and the children realized that they werenothing more than black hats, made in such a way as to resemble actual crows. It wassuch a strange kind of hat to be wearing that the children found themselves staring forquite a few minutes without noticing anything else.“Are you the Baudelaire orphans?” asked one of the old men who was sitting onthe bench, in a gravelly voice. As he talked, his crow head flapped slightly, whichonly made it look more ridiculous. “We’ve been expecting you, although I wasn’ttold you would look so terrible. You three are the most windswept, dusty, andsunburned children I have ever seen. Are you sure you’re the children we’ve beenwaiting for?”“Yes,” Violet replied. “I’m Violet Baudelaire, and this is my brother, Klaus, andmy sister, Sunny, and the reason why we — ”“Shush,” one of the other old men said. “We’re not discussing you right now. Rule#492 clearly states that the Council of Elders will only discuss things that are on theplatform. Right now we are discussing our new Chief of Police. Are there anyquestions from the townspeople regarding Officer Luciana?”“Yes, I have a question,” called out a man in plaid pants. “I want to know whathappened to our previous Chief of Police. I liked that guy.”The woman on the platform held up a white-gloved hand, and the Baudelairesturned to look at her for the first time. Officer Luciana was a very tall womanwearing big black boots, a blue coat with a shiny badge, and a motorcycle helmetwith the visor pulled down to cover her eyes. The Baudelaires could see her mouth,below the edge of the visor, covered in bright red lipstick. “The previous Chief ofPolice has a sore throat,” she said, turning her helmet to the man who had asked thequestion. “He accidentally swallowed a box of thumbtacks. But let’s not waste timetalking about him. I am your new Chief of Police, and I will make sure that anyrulebreakers in town are punished properly. I can’t see how there’s anything more todiscuss.”“I quite agree with you,” said the first Elder who had spoken, as the people infolding chairs nodded. “The Council of Elders hereby ends the discussion of OfficerLuciana. Hector, please bring the orphans to the platform for discussion.”A tall skinny man in rumpled overalls stood up from one of the folding chairs asthe Chief of Police stepped off the platform with a lipsticked smile on. His eyes onthe floor, the man walked over to the Baudelaires and pointed first at the Council ofElders sitting on the bench and then at the empty platform. Although they would havepreferred a more polite method of communication, the children understood at once,and Violet and Klaus stepped up onto the platform and then lifted Sunny up to jointhem.One of the women in the Council of Elders spoke up. “We are now discussing theguardianship of the Baudelaire orphans. Under the new government program, theentire town of V.F.D. will act as guardian over these three children because it takes avillage to raise a child. Are there any questions?”“Are these the same Baudelaires,” came a voice from the back of the room, “whoare involved in the kidnapping of the Quagmire twins by Count Omar?”The Baudelaires turned around to see a woman dressed in a bright pink bathrobeand holding up a copy of The Daily Punctilio. “It says here in the newspaper that anevil count is coming after those children. I don’t want someone like that in ourtown!”“We’ve taken care of that matter, Mrs. Morrow,” replied another member of theCouncil soothingly. “We’ll explain in a moment. Now, when children have aguardian, the guardian makes them do chores, so it follows that you Baudelaires willdo all the chores for the entire village. Beginning tomorrow, you three children willbe responsible for anything that anyone asks you to do.”The children looked at each other in disbelief. “Begging your pardon,” Klaus saidtimidly, “but there are only twenty-four hours in a day, and there appear to be severalhundred townspeople. How will we find the time to do everyone’s chores?”“Hush!” several members of the Council said in unison, and then the youngestlooking woman spoke up. “Rule #920 clearly states that no one may talk while on theplatform unless you are a police officer. You’re orphans, not police officers, so shutup. Now, due to the V.F.D. crows, you will have to arrange your chore schedule asfollows: In the morning, the crows roost uptown, so that’s when you will do all thedowntown chores, so the crows don’t get in your way. In the afternoon, as you cansee, the crows roost downtown, so you will do the uptown chores then. Please payparticular attention to our new fountain, which was just installed this morning. It’svery beautiful, and needs to be kept as clean as possible. At night, the crows roost inNevermore Tree, which is on the outskirts of town, so there’s no problem there. Arethere any questions?”“I have a question,” said the man in plaid pants. He stood up from his folding chairand pointed at the Baudelaires. “Where are they going to live? It may take a village toraise a child, but that doesn’t mean that our homes have to be disturbed by noisychildren, does it?”“Yes,” agreed Mrs. Morrow. “I’m all for the orphans doing our chores, but I don’twant them cluttering up my house.”Several other townspeople spoke up. “Hear, hear!” they said, using an expressionwhich here means “I don’t want Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire to live with me,either!”One of the oldest-looking Elders raised both his hands up in the air. “Please,” hesaid. “There is no reason for all this fuss. The children will live with Hector, ourhandyman. He will feed them, clothe them, and make sure they do all the chores, andhe is responsible for teaching them all of the rules of V.F.D., so they won’t do anymore terrible things, such as talking while on the platform.”“Thank goodness for that,” muttered the man in plaid pants.“Now, Baudelaires,” said yet another member of the Council. She was sitting sofar from the platform that she had to crane her head to look at the children, and herhat looked like it would fall off her head. “Before Hector takes you to his house, I’msure you have some concerns of your own. It’s too bad you’re not allowed to speakright now, otherwise you could tell us what they were. But Mr. Poe sent us somematerials regarding this Count Olaf person.”“Omar,” corrected Mrs. Morrow, pointing to the headline in the newspaper.“Silence!” the Elder said. “Now, Baudelaires, I’m sure you are very concernedabout this Olaf fellow, but as your guardian, the town will protect you. That is whywe have recently made up a new rule, Rule #19,833. It clearly states that no villainsare allowed within the city limits.”“Hear, hear!” the townspeople cried, and the Council of Elders nodded inappreciation, bobbing their crow-shaped hats.“Now, if there are no more questions,” an Elder concluded, “Hector, please takethe Baudelaires off the platform and take them to your house.”Still keeping his eyes on the floor, the man in overalls strode silently to theplatform and led them out of the room. The children hurried to catch up with thehandyman, who had not said one word all this time. Was he unhappy to be takingcare of three children? Was he angry at the Council of Elders? Was he unable tospeak at all? It reminded the Baudelaires of one of Count Olaf’s associates, the onewho looked like neither a man nor a woman and who never seemed to speak. Thechildren kept a few steps behind Hector as he walked out of the building, almostafraid to get any closer to a man who was so strange and silent.When Hector opened the door of Town Hall and led the children back out onto thecrow-covered sidewalk, he let out a big sigh — the first sound the children had heardfrom him. Then he looked down at each Baudelaire and gave them a gentle smile.“I’m never truly relaxed,” he said to them in a pleasant voice, “until I have left TownHall. The Council of Elders makes me feel very skittish. All those strict rules! Itmakes me so skittish that I never speak during one of their council meetings. But Ialways feel much better the moment I walk out of the building. Now, it looks likewe’re going to be spending quite a bit of time together, so let’s get a few thingsstraight. Number one, call me Hector. Number two, I hope you like Mexican food,because that’s my specialty. And number three, I want you to see somethingmarvelous, and we’re just in time. The sun is starting to set.”It was true. The Baudelaires hadn’t noticed, when they stepped out of Town Hall,that the afternoon light had slipped away and that the sun was now just beginning todip below the horizon. “It’s lovely,” Violet said politely, although she had neverunderstood all the fuss about standing around admiring sunsets.“Shh,” Hector said. “Who cares about the sunset? Just be quiet for a minute, andwatch the crows. It should happen any second now.”“What should happen?” Klaus said.“Shh,” Hector said again, and then it began to happen. The Council of Elders hadalready told the Baudelaires about the roosting habits of the crows, but the threechildren hadn’t really given the matter a second thought, a phrase which here means“considered, even for a second, what it would look like when thousands of crowswould fly together to a new location.” One of the largest crows, sitting on top of themailbox, was the first to fly up in the air, and with a rustle of wings he — or she; itwas hard to tell from so far away — began to fly in a large circle over the children’sheads. Then a crow from one of Town Hall’s windowsills flew up to join the firstcrow, and then one from a nearby bush, and then three from the street, and thenhundreds of crows began to rise up at once and circle in the air, and it was as if anenormous shadow was being lifted from the town. The Baudelaires could finally seewhat all the streets looked like, and they could gaze at each detail of the buildings asmore and more crows left their afternoon roosts. But the children scarcely looked atthe town. Instead they looked straight up, at the mysterious and beautiful sight of allthose birds making a huge circle in the sky.“Isn’t it marvelous?” Hector cried. His long skinny arms were outstretched, and hehad to raise his voice over the sound of all the fluttering wings. “Isn’t it marvelous?”Violet, Klaus, and Sunny nodded in agreement, and stared at the thousands ofcrows circling and circling above them like a mass of fluttering smoke or like black,fresh ink — such as the ink I am using now, to write down these events — thatsomehow had found its way to the heavens. The sound of the wings sounded like amillion pages being flipped, and the wind from all that fluttering blew in theirgrinning faces. For a moment, with all that air rushing toward them, the Baudelaireorphans felt as if they too could fly up into the air, away from Count Olaf and alltheir troubles, and join the circle of crows in the evening sky.makes me hungry, too. What shall we eat this evening? How about chickenenchiladas? That’s a Mexican dish consisting of corn tortillas rolled around a chickenfilling, covered with melted cheese and a special sauce I learned from my second-gradeteacher. How does that sound?”“That sounds delicious,” Violet said.“Oh, good,” Hector said. “I despise picky eaters. Well, it’s a pretty long walk tomy house, so let’s talk as we go. Here, I’ll carry your suitcases and you two can carryyour sister. I know you had to walk from the bus stop, so she’s had more than enoughexercise for a baby.”Hector grabbed the Baudelaires’ bags and led the way down the street, which wasnow empty except for a few stray crow feathers. High above their heads, the crowswere taking a sharp left-hand turn, and Hector raised Klaus’s suitcase to point atthem. “I don’t know if you’re familiar with the expression ‘as the crow flies,’” Hectorsaid, “but it means ‘the most direct route.’ If something is a mile away as the crowflies, that means it’s the shortest way to get there. It usually has nothing to do withactual crows, but in this case it does. We’re about a mile away from my home as thecrow flies — as all those crows fly, as a matter of fact. At night, they roost inNevermore Tree, which is in my backyard. But it takes us longer to get there, ofcourse, because we have to walk through V.F.D. instead of flying up in the air.”“Hector,” Violet said timidly, “we were wondering exactly what V.F.D. stands for.”“Oh yes,” Klaus said. “Please tell us.”“Of course I’ll tell you,” Hector said, “but I don’t know why you’re so excitedabout it. It’s just more nonsense from the Council of Elders.”The Baudelaires looked at one another uncertainly. “What do you mean?” Klausasked.“Well, about three hundred and six years ago,” Hector said, “a group of explorersdiscovered the murder of crows that we just saw.”“Sturo?” Sunny asked.“We didn’t see any crows get killed,” Violet said.“‘Murder’ is the word for a group of crows, like a flock of geese or a herd of cowsor a convention of orthodontists. Anyway, the explorers were impressed with theirpatterns of migration — you know, they always fly uptown in the morning,downtown in the afternoon and over to Nevermore Tree in the evening. It’s a veryunusual pattern, and the explorers were so excited by it that they decided to live here.Before too long, a town sprung up, and so they named it V.F.D.”“But what does V.F.D. stand for?” Violet asked.“The Village of Fowl Devotees,” Hector said. “‘Devotees’ is a word for peoplewho are devoted to something, and ‘fowl’ — ”“ — means ‘bird,’” Klaus finished. “That’s the secret of V.F.D.? Village of FowlDevotees?”“What do you mean, secret?” Hector asked. “It’s not a secret. Everyone knowswhat those letters mean.”The Baudelaires sighed with confusion and dismay, which is not a pleasantcombination. “What my brother means,” Violet explained, “is that we chose V.F.D. tobecome our new guardian because we’d been told of a terrible secret — a secret withthe initials V.F.D.”“Who told you about this secret?” Hector asked.“Some very dear friends of ours,” Violet replied. “Duncan and Isadora Quagmire.They discovered something about Count Olaf, but before they could tell us anythingmore — ”“Hold on a minute,” Hector said. “Who’s Count Olaf? Mrs. Morrow was talkingabout Count Omar. Is Olaf his brother?”“No,” Klaus said, shuddering at the very thought of Olaf having a brother. “I’mafraid The Daily Punctilio got many of the facts wrong.”“Well, why don’t we get them right,” Hector said, turning a corner. “Suppose youtell me exactly what happened.”“It’s sort of a long story,” Violet said.“Well,” Hector said, with a slight smile, “we have sort of a long walk. Why don’tyou begin at the beginning?”The Baudelaires looked up at Hector, sighed, and began at the beginning, whichseemed such a long way off that they were surprised they could remember it soclearly. Violet told Hector about the dreadful day at the beach when she and hersiblings learned from Mr. Poe that their parents had been killed in the fire that haddestroyed their home, and Klaus told Hector about the days they spent in CountOlaf’s care. Sunny — with some help from Klaus and Violet, who translated for her— told him about poor Uncle Monty, and about the terrible things that had happenedto Aunt Josephine. Violet told Hector about working at Lucky Smells Lumbermill,and Klaus told him about enrolling at Prufrock Preparatory School , and Sunnyrelated the dismal time they had living with Jerome and Esmé Squalor at 667 DarkAvenue . Violet told Hector all about Count Olaf’s various disguises, and about eachand every one of his nefarious associates, including the hook-handed man, the twopowder-faced women, the bald man with the long nose, and the one who looked likeneither a man nor a woman, of whom the Baudelaires had been reminded whenHector had been so silent. Klaus told Hector all about the Quagmire triplets, andabout the mysterious underground passageway that had led back to their home, andabout the shadow of misfortune that had seemed to hang over them nearly everymoment since that day at the beach. And as the Baudelaires told Hector their longstory, they began to feel as if the handyman was carrying more than their suitcases.They felt as if he was carrying each word they said, as if each unfortunate event wasa burden that Hector was helping them with. The story of their lives was so miserablethat I cannot say they felt happy when they were through telling it, but by the timeSunny concluded the whole long story, the Baudelaires felt as if they were carryingmuch less.A Series of Unfortunate Events 7 - TheVile Village“Kyun,” Sunny concluded, which Violet was quick to translate as “And that’s whywe chose this town, in the hopes of finding the secret of V.F.D., rescuing theQuagmire triplets, and defeating Count Olaf once and for all.”Hector sighed. “You’ve certainly been through an ordeal,” he said, using a wordwhich here means “a heap of trouble, most of which was Count Olaf’s fault.” Hestopped for a second and looked at each Baudelaire. “You’ve been very brave, allthree of you, and I’ll do my best to make sure you have a proper home with me. But Imust tell you that I think you’ve hit a dead end.”“What do you mean?” Klaus asked.“Well, I hate to add some bad news to the terrible story you just told me,” Hectorsaid, “but I think the initials that the Quagmires told you about and the initials of thistown are just a coincidence. As I said, this village has been called V.F.D. for morethan three hundred years. Scarcely anything has changed since then. The crows havealways roosted in the same places. The meetings of the Council of Elders havealways been at the same time every day. My father was the handyman before me, andhis father was the handyman before him, and so on and so on. The only new things inthis town are you three children and the new Fowl Fountain uptown, which we’ll becleaning tomorrow. I don’t see how this village could have anything to do with thesecret the Quagmires discovered.”The Baudelaire children looked at one another in frustration. “Pojik?” Sunny askedin exasperation. She meant something along the lines of “Do you mean we’ve comehere for nothing?” but Violet translated it somewhat differently.“What my sister means,” Violet said, “is that it’s very frustrating to find that we’rein the wrong place.”“We’re very concerned for our friends,” Klaus added, “and we don’t want to giveup on finding them.”“Give up?” Hector said. “Who said anything about giving up? Just because thename of this town isn’t helpful, that doesn’t mean you’re in the wrong place. Weobviously have a great many chores to do, but in our spare time we can try to find outthe whereabouts of Duncan and Isadora. I’m a handyman, not a detective, but I’ll tryto help you the best I can. We’ll have to be very careful, though. The Council ofElders has so many rules that you can scarcely do anything without breaking one ofthem.”“Why does the Council have so many rules?” Violet asked.“Why does anyone have a lot of rules?” Hector said with a shrug. “So they canboss people around, I guess. Thanks to all the rules of V.F.D., the Council of Elderscan tell people what to wear, how to talk, what to eat, and even what to build. Rule#67, for instance, clearly states that no citizen is allowed to build or use anymechanical devices.”“Does that mean I can’t build or use any mechanical devices?” Violet askedHector. “Are my siblings and I citizens of V.F.D., now that the town is our guardian?”“I’m afraid you are,” Hector said. “You have to follow Rule #67, along with all theother rules.”“But Violet’s an inventor!” Klaus cried. “Mechanical devices are very important toher!”“Is that so?” Hector said, and smiled. “Then you can be a very big help to me,Violet.” He stopped walking, and looked around the street as if it was full of spies,instead of being completely empty. “Can you keep a secret?” he asked.“Yes,” Violet answered.Hector looked around the street once more, and then leaned forward and beganspeaking in a very quiet voice. “When the Council of Elders invented Rule #67,” hesaid, “they instructed me to remove all the inventing materials in town.”“What did you say?” Klaus asked.“I didn’t say anything,” Hector admitted, leading the children around anothercorner. “The Council makes me too skittish to speak; you know that. But here’s whatI did. I took all of the materials and hid them out in my barn, which I’ve been usingas sort of an inventing studio.”“I’ve always wanted to have an inventing studio,” Violet said. Without evenrealizing it, she was reaching into her pocket for a ribbon, to tie her hair up and keepit out of her eyes, as if she were already inventing something instead of just talkingabout it. “What have you invented so far, Hector?”“Oh, just a few little things,” Hector said, “but I have an enormous project that isnearing completion. I’ve been building a self-sustaining hot air mobile home.”“Neebdes?” Sunny said. She meant something like, “Could you explain that a bitmore?” but Hector needed no encouragement to keep talking about his invention.“I don’t know if you’ve ever been up in a hot air balloon,” he said, “but it’s veryexciting. You stand in a large basket, with the enormous balloon over your head, andyou can gaze down at the entire countryside below you, spread out like a blanket. It’ssimply superlative. Well, my invention is nothing more than a hot air balloon —except it’s much larger. Instead of one large basket, there are twelve baskets, all tiedtogether below several hot air balloons. Each basket serves as a different room, so it’slike having an entire flying house. It’s completely self-sustaining — once you get upin it, you never have to go back down. In fact, if my new engine works properly, itwill be impossible to get back down. The engine should last for more than onehundred years, and there’s a huge storage basket that I’m filling with food, beverages,clothing, and books. Once it’s completed, I’ll be able to fly away from V.F.D. and theCouncil of Elders and everything else that makes me skittish, and live forever in theair.”“It sounds like a marvelous invention,” Violet said. “How in the world have youbeen able to get the engine to be self-sustaining, too?”“That’s giving me something of a problem,” Hector admitted, “but maybe if youthree took a look at it, we could fix the engine together.”“I’m sure Violet could be of help,” Klaus said, “but I’m not much of an inventor.I’m more interested in reading. Does V.F.D. have a good library?”“Unfortunately, no,” Hector said. “Rule #108 clearly states that the V.F.D. librarycannot contain any books that break any of the other rules. If someone in a book usesa mechanical device, for instance, that book is not allowed in the library.”“But there are so many rules,” Klaus said. “What kind of books could possibly beallowed?”“Not very many,” Hector said, “and nearly all of them are dull. There’s one calledThe Littlest Elf that’s probably the most boring book ever written. It’s about thisirritating little man who has all sorts of tedious adventures.”“That’s too bad,” Klaus said glumly. “I was hoping that I could do a little researchinto V.F.D. — the secret, that is, not the village — in my spare time.”Hector stopped walking again, and looked once more around the empty streets.“Can you keep another secret?” he asked, and the Baudelaires nodded. “The Councilof Elders told me to burn all of the books that broke Rule #108,” he said in a quietvoice, “but I brought them to my barn instead. I have sort of a secret library there, aswell as a secret inventing studio.”“Wow,” Klaus said. “I’ve seen public libraries, private libraries, school libraries,legal libraries, reptile libraries, and grammatical libraries, but never a secret library. Itsounds exciting.”“It’s a bit exciting,” Hector agreed, “but it also makes me very skittish. TheCouncil of Elders gets very, very angry when people break the rules. I hate to thinkwhat they’d do to me if they found out I was secretly using mechanical devices andreading interesting books.”“Azzator!” Sunny said, which meant “Don’t worry — your secret is safe with us!”Hector looked down at her quizzically. “I don’t know what ‘azzator’ means,Sunny,” he said, “but I would guess it means ‘Don’t forget about me!’ Violet will usethe studio, and Klaus will use the library, but what can we do for you? What do youlike to do best?”“Bite!” Sunny responded at once, but Hector frowned and took another lookaround him.“Don’t say that so loudly, Sunny!” he whispered. “Rule #4,561 clearly states thatcitizens are not allowed to use their mouths for recreation. If the Council of Eldersknew that you liked to bite things for your own enjoyment, I can’t imagine whatthey’d do. I’m sure we can find you some things to bite, but you’ll have to do it insecret. Well, here we are.”Hector led the Baudelaires around one last corner, and the children got their firstglimpse of where they would be living. The street they had been walking on simplyended at the turn of the corner, leading them to a place as wide and as flat as thecountryside they had crossed that afternoon, with just three shapes standing out onthe flat horizon. The first was a large, sturdy-looking house, with a pointed roof and afront porch big enough to contain a picnic table and four wooden chairs. The secondwas an enormous barn, right next to the house, that hid the studio and library Hectorhad been talking about. But it was the third shape that caused the Baudelaires to stare.The third shape on the horizon was Nevermore Tree, but to simply say it was a treewould be like saying the Pacific Ocean was a body of water, or that Count Olaf was agrumpy person or that the story of Beatrice and myself was just a little bit sad.Nevermore Tree was gargantuan, a word which here means “having attained aninordinate amount of botanical volume,” a phrase which here means “it was thebiggest tree the Baudelaires had ever seen.” Its trunk was so wide that theBaudelaires could have stood behind it, along with an elephant, three horses, and anopera singer, and not have been seen from the other side. Its branches spread out inevery direction, like a fan that was taller than the house and wider than the barn, andthe tree was made even taller and wider by what was sitting in it. Every last V.F.D.crow was roosting in its branches, adding a thick layer of muttering black shapes tothe immense silhouette of the tree. Because the crows had gotten to Hector’s house asthe crow flies, instead of walking, the birds had arrived long before the Baudelaires,and the air was filled with the quiet rustling sounds of the birds settling in for theevening. A few of the birds had already fallen asleep, and the children could hear afew crow snores as they approached their new home.“What do you think?” Hector asked.“It’s marvelous,” Violet said.“It’s superlative,” Klaus said.“Ogufod!” Sunny said, which meant “What a lot of crows!”“The noises of the crows might sound strange at first,” Hector said, leading theway up the steps of the house, “but you’ll get used to them before long. I alwaysleave the windows open when I go to bed. The sounds of the crows remind me of theocean, and I find it very peaceful to listen to them as I drift off to sleep. Speaking ofbed, I’m sure you must be very tired. I’ve prepared three rooms for you upstairs, butif you don’t like them you can choose other ones. There’s plenty of room in thehouse. There’s even room for the Quagmires to live here, when we find them. Itsounds like the five of you would be happy living together, even if you had to do thechores of an entire town.”“That sounds delightful,” Violet said, smiling at Hector. It made the childrenhappy just to think of the two triplets being safe and sound, instead of in Count Olaf’sclutches. “Duncan is a journalist, so maybe he could start a newspaper — then V.F.D.wouldn’t have to read all of the mistakes in The Daily Punctilio.”“And Isadora is a poet,” Klaus said. “She could write a book of poetry for thelibrary — as long as she didn’t write poetry about things that were against the rules.”Hector started to open the door of his house, but then paused and gave theBaudelaires a strange look. “A poet?” he asked. “What kind of poetry does shewrite?”“Couplets,” Violet replied.Hector gave the children a look that was even stranger. He put down theBaudelaires’ suitcases and reached into the pocket of his overalls. “Couplets?” heasked.“Yes,” Klaus said. “She likes to write rhyming poems that are two lines long.”Hector gave the youngsters a look that was one of the strangest they had ever seen,and took his hand out of his pocket to show them a scrap of paper rolled into a tinyscroll.“Like this?” he asked, and unrolled the paper. The Baudelaire orphans had tosquint to read it in the dying light of the sunset, and when they read it once they hadto read it again, to make sure that the light wasn’t playing tricks on them and thatthey had read what was really there on the scrap of paper, in shaky but familiarhandwriting:For sapphires we are held in here.Only you can end our fear.C H A P T E RFourThe Baudelaire orphans stared at the scrap of paper, and then at Hector, and then atthe scrap of paper again. Then they stared at Hector again, and then at the scrap ofpaper once more and then at Hector once more and then at the scrap of paper onceagain, and then at Hector once again and then at the scrap of paper one more time.Their mouths were open as if they were about to speak, but the three children couldnot find the words they wanted to say.The expression “a bolt from the blue” describes something so surprising that itmakes your head spin, your legs wobble, and your body buzz with astonishment —as if a bolt of lightning suddenly came down from a clear blue sky and struck you atfull force. Unless you are a light bulb, an electrical appliance, or a tree that is tired ofstanding upright, encountering a bolt from the blue is not a pleasant experience, andfor a few minutes the Baudelaires stood on the steps of Hector’s house and felt theunpleasant sensations of spinning heads, wobbly legs, and buzzing bodies.“My goodness, Baudelaires,” Hector said. “I’ve never seen anyone look sosurprised. Here, come in the house and sit down. You look like a bolt of lightning justhit you at full force.”The Baudelaires followed Hector into his house and down a hallway to the parlor,where they sat down on a couch without a word. “Why don’t you sit here for a fewminutes,” he said. “I’m going to fix you some hot tea. Maybe by the time it’s readyyou’ll be able to talk.” He leaned down and handed the scrap of paper to Violet, andgave Sunny a little pat on the head before walking out of the parlor and leaving thechildren alone. Without speaking, Violet unrolled the paper so the siblings could readthe couplet again.For sapphires we are held in here. Only you can end our fear.“It’s her,” Klaus said, speaking quietly so Hector wouldn’t hear him. “I’m sure ofit. Isadora Quagmire wrote this poem.”“I think so, too,” Violet said. “I’m positive it’s her handwriting.”“Blake!” Sunny said, which meant “And the poem is written in Isadora’s distinctliterary style!”“The poem talks about sapphires,” Violet said, “and the triplets’ parents left behindthe famous Quagmire sapphires when they died.”“Olaf kidnapped them to get ahold of those sapphires,” Klaus said. “That must bewhat it means when it says ‘For sapphires we are held in here.’”“Peng?” Sunny asked.“I don’t know how Hector got ahold of this,” Violet replied. “Let’s ask him.”“Not so fast,” Klaus said. He took the poem from Violet and looked at it again.“Maybe Hector’s involved with the kidnapping in some way.”“I hadn’t thought of that,” Violet said. “Do you really think so?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said. “He doesn’t seem like one of Count Olaf’s associates,but sometimes we haven’t been able to recognize them.”“Wryb,” Sunny said thoughtfully, which meant “That’s true.”“He seems like someone we can trust,” Violet said. “He was excited to show us themigration of the crows, and he wanted to hear all about everything that has happenedto us. That doesn’t sound like a kidnapper, but I suppose there’s no way of knowingfor sure.”“Exactly,” Klaus said. “There’s no way of knowing for sure.”“The tea’s all ready,” Hector called from the next room. “If you’re up to it, whydon’t you join me in the kitchen? You can sit at the table while I make theenchiladas.”The Baudelaires looked at one another, and nodded. “Kay!” Sunny called, and ledher siblings into a large and cozy kitchen. The children took seats at a round woodentable, where Hector had placed three steaming mugs of tea, and sat quietly whileHector began to prepare dinner. It is true, of course, that there is no way of knowingfor sure whether or not you can trust someone, for the simple reason thatcircumstances change all of the time. You might know someone for several years, forinstance, and trust him completely as your friend, but circumstances could changeand he could become very hungry, and before you knew it you could be boiling in asoup pot, because there is no way of knowing for sure. I myself fell in love with awonderful woman who was so charming and intelligent that I trusted that she wouldbe my bride, but there was no way of knowing for sure, and all too sooncircumstances changed and she ended up marrying someone else, all because ofsomething she read in The Daily Punctilio. And no one had to tell the Baudelaireorphans that there was no way of knowing for sure, because before they becameorphans, they lived for many years in the care their parents, and trusted their parentsto keep on caring for them, but circumstances changed, and now their parents weredead and the children were living with a handyman in a town full of crows. But eventhough there is no way of knowing for sure, there are often ways to know for prettysure, and as the three siblings watched Hector work in the kitchen they spotted someof those ways. The tune he hummed as he chopped the ingredients, for instance, wasa comforting one, and the Baudelaires could not imagine that a person could hum likethat if he were a kidnapper. When he saw that the Baudelaires’ tea was still too hot tosip, he walked over to the kitchen and blew on each of their mugs to cool it, and itwas hard to believe that someone could be hiding two triplets and cooling threechildren’s tea at the same time. And most comforting of all, Hector didn’t pester themwith a lot of questions about why they were so surprised and silent. He simply keptquiet and let the Baudelaires wait until they were ready to speak about the scrap ofpaper he had given them, and the children could not imagine that such a considerateperson was involved with Count Olaf in any way whatsoever. There was no way ofknowing for sure, of course, but as the Baudelaires watched the handyman place theenchiladas in the oven to bake, they felt as if they knew for pretty sure, and by thetime he sat down and joined them at the table they were ready to tell him about thecouplet they had read.“This poem was written by Isadora Quagmire,” Klaus said without preamble, aphrase which here means “almost as soon as Hector sat down.”“Wow,” Hector said. “No wonder you were so surprised. But how can you be sure?Lots of poets write couplets. Ogden Nash, for instance.”“Ogden Nash doesn’t write about sapphires,” said Klaus, who had received abiography of Ogden Nash for his seventh birthday. “Isadora does. When theQuagmire parents died, they left behind a fortune in sapphires. That’s what she meansby ‘For sapphires we are held in here.’”“Besides,” Violet said, “it’s Isadora’s handwriting and distinct literary style.”“Well,” Hector said, “if you say this poem is by Isadora Quagmire, I believe you.”“We should call Mr. Poe, and tell him,” Klaus said.“We can’t call him,” Hector said. “There are no telephones in V.F.D., becausetelephones are mechanical devices. The Council of Elders can send a message to him.I’m too skittish to ask them, but you can do so if you wish.”“Well, before we talk to the Council, we should know a bit more about thecouplet,” Violet said. “Where did you get ahold of this scrap of paper?”“I found it today,” Hector said, “beneath the branches of Nevermore Tree. I wokeup this morning, and I was just leaving to walk downtown to do the morning choreswhen I noticed something white among all the black feathers the crows had leftbehind. It was this scrap of paper, all rolled up in a little scroll. I didn’t understandwhat was written on it, and I needed to get the chores done, so I put it in the pocket ofmy overalls, and I didn’t think of it again until just now, when we were talking aboutcouplets. It’s certainly very mysterious. How in the world did one of Isadora’s poemsend up in my backyard?”“Well, poems don’t get up and walk by themselves,” Violet said. “Isadora musthave put it here. She must be someplace nearby.”Hector shook his head. “I don’t think so,” he said. “You saw for yourself how flatit is around here. You can see everything for miles around, and the only things hereon the outskirts of town are the house, the barn, and Nevermore Tree. You’rewelcome to search the house, but you’re not going to find Isadora Quagmire oranyone else, and I always keep the barn locked because I don’t want the Council ofElders to find out I’m breaking the rules.”“Maybe she’s in the tree,” Klaus said. “It’s certainly big enough that Olaf couldhide her in the branches.”“That’s true,” Violet said. “Last time Olaf was keeping them far below us. Maybethis time they’re far above us.” She shuddered, thinking of how unpleasant it wouldbe to find yourself trapped in Nevermore Tree’s enormous branches, and she pushedher chair back from the table and stood up. “There’s only one thing to do,” she said.“We’ll have to go up and look for them.”“You’re right,” Klaus said, and stood up beside her. “Let’s go.”“Gerhit!” Sunny agreed.“Hold on a minute,” Hector said. “We can’t just go climbing up Nevermore Tree.”“Why not?” Violet said. “We’ve climbed up a tower and down an elevator shaft.Climbing a tree should be no problem.”“I’m sure you three are fine climbers,” Hector said, “but that’s not what I mean.”He stood up and walked over to the kitchen window. “Take a look outside,” he said.“The sun has completely set. It’s not light enough to see a friend of yours up inNevermore Tree. Besides, the tree is covered in roosting birds. You’ll never be ableto climb through all of those crows — it’ll be a wild-goose chase.”The Baudelaires looked out the window and saw that Hector was right. The treewas merely an enormous shadow, blurry around the edges where the birds wereroosting. The children knew that a climb in such darkness would indeed be a wildgoose chase, a phrase which here means “unlikely to reveal the Quagmires triplets’location.” Klaus and Sunny looked at their sister, hoping that she could invent asolution, and were relieved to hear she had thought of something before she couldeven tie her hair back in a ribbon. “We could climb with flashlights,” Violet said. “Ifyou have some tinfoil, an old broom handle, and three rubber bands, I can make aflashlight myself in ten minutes.”Hector shook his head. “Flashlights would only disturb the crows,” he said. “Ifsomeone woke you up in the middle of the night and shone a light in your face, youwould be very annoyed, and you don’t want to be surrounded by thousands ofannoyed crows. It’s better to wait until morning, when the crows have migrateduptown.”“We can’t wait until morning,” Klaus said. “We can’t wait another second. The lasttime we found them, we left them alone for a few minutes, and then they were goneagain.”“Ollawmove!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Olaf could move them at any time!”“Well, he can’t move them now,” Hector pointed out. “It would be just as difficultfor him to climb the tree.”“We have to do something,” Violet insisted. “This poem isn’t just a couplet — it’sa cry for help. Isadora herself says ‘Only you can end our fear.’ Our friends arefrightened, and it’s up to us to rescue them.”Hector took some oven mitts out of the pocket of his overalls, and used them totake the enchiladas out of the oven. “I’ll tell you what,” he said. “It’s a nice evening,and our chicken enchiladas are done. We can sit out on the porch, and eat our dinner,and keep an eye on Nevermore Tree. This area is so flat that even at night you cansee for quite a distance, and if Count Olaf approaches — or anybody else, for thatmatter — we’ll see him coming.”“But Count Olaf might perform his treachery after dinner,” Klaus said. “The onlyway to make sure that nobody approaches the tree is to watch the tree all night.”“We can take turns sleeping,” Violet said, “so that one of us is always awake tokeep watch.”Hector started to shake his head, but then stopped and looked at the children.“Normally I don’t approve of children staying up late,” he said finally, “unless theyare reading a very good book, seeing a wonderful movie, or attending a dinner partywith fascinating guests. But this time I suppose we can make an exception. I’llprobably fall asleep, but you three can keep watch all night if you wish. Just pleasedon’t try to climb Nevermore Tree in the dark. I understand how frustrated you are,and I know that the only thing we can do is wait until morning.”The Baudelaires looked at one another and sighed. They were so anxious about theQuagmires that they wanted to run right out and climb Nevermore Tree, but theyknew in their hearts that Hector was right.“I guess you’re right, Hector,” Violet said. “We can wait until morning.”“It’s the only thing we can do,” Klaus agreed.“Contraire!” Sunny said, and held up her arms so that Klaus could pick her up. Shemeant something along the lines of “I can think of something else we can do — holdme up to the window latch!” and her brother did so. Sunny’s tiny fingers undid thelatch of the window and pushed it open, letting in the cool evening air and themuttering sound of the crows. Then she leaned forward as far as she could and stuckher head out into the night. “Bark!” she cried out as loudly as she could. “Bark!”There are many expressions to describe someone who is going about something inthe wrong way. “Making a mistake” is one way to describe this situation. “Screwingup” is another, although it is a bit rude, and “Attempting to rescue Lemony Snicketby writing letters to a congressman, instead of digging an escape tunnel” is a thirdway, although it is a bit too specific. But Sunny calling out “Bark!” brings to mind anexpression that, sadly enough, describes the situation perfectly.By “Bark!” Sunny meant “If you’re up there, Quagmires, just hang on, and we’llget you out first thing in the morning,” and I’m sorry to say that the expression whichbest describes her circumstances is “barking up the wrong tree.” It was a kind gestureof Sunny’s, to try to reassure Isadora and Duncan that the Baudelaires would helpthem escape from Count Olaf’s clutches, but the youngest Baudelaire was goingabout it the wrong way. “Bark!” she cried one more time, as Hector began to dish upthe chicken enchiladas, and led the Baudelaires to the front porch so they could eat atthe picnic table and keep an eye on Nevermore Tree, but Sunny was making amistake. The Baudelaires did not realize the mistake as they finished their dinner andkept their eye on the immense, muttering tree. They did not realize the mistake asthey sat on the porch for the rest of the night, taking turns at squinting at the flathorizon for any sign of someone approaching and dozing beside Hector using thepicnic table as a pillow. But when the sun began to rise, and one V.F.D. crow leftNevermore Tree and began to fly in a circle, and three more crows followed, and thenseven more, and then twelve more, and soon the morning sky was filled with thesound of fluttering wings as the thousands of crows circled and circled above thechildren’s heads as they rose from the wooden chairs and walked quickly toward thetree to look for any sign of the Quagmires, the Baudelaires saw at once how deeplymistaken they had been.Without the murder of crows roosting in its branches, Nevermore Tree looked asbare as a skeleton. There was not a single leaf among the hundreds and hundreds ofthe tree’s branches. Standing on its scraggly roots and looking up into the emptybranches, the Baudelaires could see every last detail of Nevermore Tree, and theycould see at once that they would not find Duncan and Isadora Quagmire no matterhow far they climbed. It was an enormous tree, and it was a sturdy tree, and it wasapparently very comfortable to roost in, but it was the wrong tree. Klaus had beenbarking up the wrong tree when he’d said that their kidnapped friends were probablyup there, and Violet had been barking up the wrong tree when she’d said that theyshould climb up and look for them, and Sunny had been barking up the wrong treewhen she’d said “Bark!” The Baudelaire orphans had been barking up the wrong treeall evening, because the only thing the children found that morning was another scrapof paper, rolled into a scroll, among all the black feathers that the crows had leftbehind“Maybe it was here yesterday, but Hector didn’t see it,” Klaus said.Violet shook her head. “A white scrap of paper is very easy to see next to all theseblack feathers. It must have arrived here sometime in the night. But how?”“How it got here is the least of our questions,” Klaus said. “Where are theQuagmires? That’s the question I want answered.”“But why doesn’t Isadora just tell us,” Violet said, rereading the couplet andfrowning, “instead of leaving us mysterious poems on the ground where anyonecould find them?”“Maybe that’s why,” Klaus said slowly. “Anyone could find them here on theground. If Isadora simply wrote out where they were, and Count Olaf found the scrapof paper, he’d move them — or worse. I’m not that experienced with reading poetry,but I bet Isadora is telling us where she and her brother are. It must be hiddensomewhere in the poem.”“It’ll be difficult to find,” Violet said, rereading the couplet. “There are so manyconfusing things about this poem. Why does she say ‘beak’? Isadora has a nose andmouth, not a beak.”“Cra!” Sunny said, which meant “She probably means the beak of a V.F.D. crow.”“You might be right,” Violet agreed. “But why does she say that no words cancome from it? Of course no words can come from a beak. Birds can’t talk.”“Actually, some birds can talk,” Klaus said. “I read an ornithological encyclopediathat discussed the parrot and the myna bird, which both can imitate human speech.”“But there aren’t any parrots or myna birds around here,” Violet said. “There areonly crows, and crows certainly can’t speak.”“And speaking of speaking,” Klaus said, “why does the poem say ‘Until dawncomes we cannot speak’?”“Well, both these poems arrived in the morning,” Violet said. “Maybe Isadorameans that she can only send us poems in the morning.”“None of this makes any sense,” Klaus said. “Maybe Hector can help us figure outwhat’s going wrong.”“Laper!” Sunny said in agreement, and the children went to wake up thehandyman, who was still asleep on the front porch. Violet touched his shoulder, andas he yawned and sat up the children could see that his face had lines on it fromsleeping on the picnic table.“Good morning, Baudelaires,” he said, stretching his arms and giving them asleepy smile. “At least, I hope it’s a good morning. Did you find any sign of theQuagmires?”“It’s more like a strange morning,” Violet replied. “We found a sign of them, allright. Take a look.”Violet handed Hector the second poem, and he read it and frowned. ‘“Curiouserand curiouser,’” he said, quoting one of the Baudelaires’ favorite books. “This isreally turning into a puzzle.”“But a puzzle is just something you do for amusement,” Klaus said. “Duncan andIsadora are in grave danger. If we don’t figure out what these poems are trying to tellus, Count Olaf will — ”“Don’t even say it,” Violet said with a shiver. “We absolutely must solve thispuzzle, and that is that.”Hector stood up to stretch, and looked out on the flat and empty horizonsurrounding his home. “Judging by the angle of the sun,” he said, “it’s just about timeto leave. We don’ t even have time for breakfast.”“Leave?” Violet asked.“Of course,” Hector said. “Are you forgetting how many chores we have ahead ofus today?” He reached into the pocket of his overalls and pulled out a list. “We begindowntown, of course, so the crows don’t get in our way. We have to trim Mrs.Morrow’s hedges, wash Mr. Lesko’s windows, and polish all the doorknobs at theVerhoogen family’s mansion. Plus we have to sweep all the feathers out of the street,and take out everyone’s garbage and recyclables.”“But the Quagmire kidnapping is much more important than any of those things,”Violet said.Hector sighed. “I agree with you,” he said, “but I’m not going to argue with theCouncil of Elders. They make me too skittish.”“I’ll be happy to explain the situation to them,” Klaus said.“No,” Hector decided. “It will be best to do our chores as usual. Go wash yourfaces, Baudelaires, and then we’ll go.”The Baudelaires looked at one another in dismay, wishing that the handymanwasn’t quite so afraid of a group of old people wearing crow-shaped hats, but withoutfurther discussion they walked back into the house, washed their faces, and followedHector across the flat landscape until they reached the outskirts of town and thenthrough the uptown district, where the V.F.D. crows were roosting, until they reachedthe downtown house of Mrs. Morrow, who was waiting in her pink robe on her frontporch. Without a word she handed Hector a pair of hedge clippers, which are nothingmore than large scissors designed to cut branches and leaves rather than paper, andgave each Baudelaire a large plastic bag to gather up the leaves and branches Hectorwould snip off. Hedge clippers and a plastic bag are not appropriate methods ofgreeting someone, of course, particularly first thing in the morning, but the threesiblings were so busy thinking about what the poems could mean that they scarcelynoticed. As they gathered up the hedge trimmings they floated several theories — thephrase “floated several theories” here means “talked quietly about the two coupletsby Isadora Quagmire” — until the hedge looked nice and neat and it was time towalk down the block to where Mr. Lesko lived. Mr. Lesko — whom the Baudelairesrecognized as the man in plaid pants who was worried that the children might have tolive with him — was even ruder than Mrs. Morrow. He merely pointed at a pile ofwindow-cleaning supplies and stomped back into his house, but once again theBaudelaires were concentrating on solving the mystery of the two messages they hadbeen left, and scarcely noticed Mr. Lesko’s rudeness. Violet and Klaus each beganscrubbing dirt off a window with a damp rag, while Sunny stood by with a bucket ofsoapy water and Hector climbed up to clean the windows on the second floor, but allthe children thought of was each line of Isadora’s confusing poem, until they werefinished with the windows and were ready to go to work on the rest of the chores forthe day, which I will not describe for you, not only because they were so boring that Iwould fall asleep while writing them down on paper, but because the Baudelaireorphans scarcely noticed them. The children thought about the couplets while theypolished the Verhoogen doorknobs, and they thought about them when they swept thefeathers from the street into a dustpan that Sunny held while crawling in front of hersiblings, but they still could not imagine how Isadora managed to leave a poemunderneath Nevermore Tree. They thought about the couplets as they carried thegarbage and recyclables from all of V.F.D.‘s downtown residents, and they thoughtabout them as they ate a lunch of cabbage sandwiches that one of V.F.D.‘s restaurantowners had agreed to provide as his part in the village’s attempt to raise the children,but they still could not figure out what Isadora was trying to tell them. They thoughtof the couplets when Hector read out the list of afternoon chores, which includedsuch tedious duties as making citizens’ beds, washing townspeople’s dishes,preparing enough hot fudge sundaes for the entire Council of Elders to enjoy as anafternoon snack, and polishing Fowl Fountain, but no matter how hard they thought,the Baudelaires got no closer to solving the couplets’ mysteries. “I’m very impressedwith how hard you three children are working,” Hector said, as he and the childrenbegan their last afternoon chore. Fowl Fountain was made in the shape of anenormous crow, and stood in the middle of the uptown district, in a courtyard withmany different streets leading out of it. The children were scrubbing at the crow’smetal body, which was covered in carvings of feather shapes to make it look morerealistic. Hector was standing on a ladder scrubbing at the crow’s metal head, whichwas facing straight up and spitting a steady stream of water out of a hole fashioned tolook like its mouth, as if the enormous bird were gargling and spitting water all overits own body. The effect was hideous, but the V.F.D. crows must have thoughtdifferently, because the fountain was covered in feathers that they had left behindduring their uptown morning roost.“When the Council of Elders told me that the village was serving as yourguardian,” Hector continued, “I was afraid that three small children wouldn’t be ableto do all these chores without complaining.”“We’re used to strenuous exercise,” Violet replied. “When we lived in Paltryville,we debarked trees and sawed them into boards, and at Prufrock Preparatory Schoolwe had to run hundreds of laps every night.”“Besides,” Klaus said, “we’re so busy thinking about the couplets that we’vescarcely noticed our work.”“I thought that’s why you were so quiet,” Hector said. “How do the poems goagain?”The Baudelaires had looked at the two scraps of paper so many times over thecourse of the day that they could recite both poems from memory.“For sapphires we are held in here. Only you can end our fear .” Violet said.“Until dawn comes we cannot speak. No words can come from this sad beak.”Klaus said.“Dulch!” Sunny added, which meant something like, “And we still haven’t figuredout what they really mean.”“They’re tricky, all right,” Hector said. “In fact, I…”Here his voice trailed off, and the children were startled to see the handyman turnaround so he was no longer facing them and begin to scrub the left eye of the metalcrow, as if someone had flicked a switch that stopped him from talking.“Fowl Fountain still doesn’t look completely clean,” said a stern voice frombehind the children, and the Baudelaires turned around to see three women from theCouncil of Elders who had entered the courtyard and now stood frowning at them.Hector was so skittish that he didn’t even look up to answer, but the children were notnearly as intimidated, a word which here means “made skittish by three older womenwearing crow-shaped hats.”“We’re not completely finished cleaning it,” Violet explained politely. “I do hopeyou enjoyed your hot fudge sundaes that we prepared for you earlier.”“They were O.K.,” one of them said, with a shrug that bobbed her crow hatslightly.“Mine had too many nuts,” another one of them said. “Rule #961 clearly states thatthe Council of Elders’ hot fudge sundaes cannot have more than fifteen pieces of nutseach, and mine might have had more than that.”“I’m very sorry to hear that,” Klaus said, not adding that anyone who is so pickyabout a hot fudge sundae should make it themselves.“We’ve stacked up the dirty ice cream dishes in the Snack Hut,” the third one said.“Tomorrow afternoon you’ll wash them as part of your uptown chores. But we cameto tell Hector something.”The children looked up to the top of the ladder, thinking that Hector would have toturn around and speak to them now, no matter how skittish he was. But he merelygave a little cough, and continued to scrub at Fowl Fountain. Violet rememberedwhat her father had taught her to say when he was unable to come to the phone, andshe spoke up.“I’m sorry,” she said. “Hector is occupied at the moment. May I give him amessage?”The Elders looked at one another and nodded, which made it look like their hatswere pecking at one another. “I suppose so,” one of them said. “If we can trust a littlegirl like you to deliver it.”“The message is very important,” the second one said, and once again I find itnecessary to use the expression “bolt from the blue.” You would think, after themysterious appearance of not one but two poems by Isadora Quagmire at the base ofNevermore Tree, that no more bolts from the blue would appear in the village ofV.F.D. A bolt of lightning, after all, rarely comes down from a clear blue sky andstrikes the exact same place more than once. But for the Baudelaire orphans, lifeseemed to be little else than bolt after unfortunate bolt from the blue, ever since Mr.Poe had delivered the first bolt from the blue in telling them that their parents hadbeen killed, and no matter how many bolts from the blue they experienced, theirheads never spun any less, and their legs never got less wobbly, and their bodiesnever buzzed any less with astonishment when another bolt arrived from the blue. Sowhen the Baudelaires heard the Elders’ message, they almost had to sit down in FowlFountain, because the message was such an utter surprise. It was a message that theythought they might never hear, and it is a message that only reaches me in my mostpleasant dreams, which are few and far between.“The message is this,” said the third member of the Council of Elders, and sheleaned her head in close so that the children could see every felt feather of her crowhat. “Count Olaf has been captured,” she said, and the Baudelaires felt as if a bolt oflightning had struck them once more.C H A P T E RSixAlthough “jumping to conclusions” is an expression, rather than an activity, it is asdangerous as jumping off a cliff, jumping in front of a moving train, and jumping forjoy. If you jump off a cliff, you have a very good chance of experiencing a painfullanding unless there is something below you to cushion your fall, such as a body ofwater or an immense pile of tissue paper. If you jump in front of a moving train, youhave a very good chance of experiencing a painful voyage unless you are wearingsome sort of train-proof suit. And if you jump for joy, you have a very good chanceof experiencing a painful bump on the head, unless you make sure you are standingsomeplace with very high ceilings, which joyous people rarely do. Clearly, thesolution to anything involving jumping is either to make sure you are jumping to asafe place, or not to jump at all.But it is hard not to jump at all when you are jumping to conclusions, and it isimpossible to make sure that you are jumping to a safe place, because all “jumping toconclusions” means is that you are believing something is true even though you don’tactually know whether it is or not. When the Baudelaire orphans heard from the threemembers of V.F.D.‘s Council of Elders that Count Olaf had been captured, they wereso excited that they immediately jumped to the conclusion that it was true.“It’s true,” said one of the Elders, which didn’t help things any. “A man arrived intown this morning, with one eyebrow and a tattoo of an eye on his ankle.”“It must be Olaf,” Violet said, jumping to conclusions.“Of course it is,” the second Council member said. “He matched the descriptionthat Mr. Poe gave us, so we arrested him immediately.”“So it’s true,” Klaus said, joining his sister in the jump. “You’ve really capturedCount Olaf.”“Of course it’s true,” the third woman said impatiently. “We’ve even contactedThe Daily Punctilio, and they’ll write a story about it. Soon the whole world willknow that Count Olaf has been captured at last.”“Hooray!” cried Sunny, the last Baudelaire to jump to conclusions.“The Council of Elders has called a special meeting,” said the woman whoappeared to be the eldest Elder. Her crow hat bobbed in excitement as she spoke. “Allcitizens are required to go to Town Hall immediately, to discuss what is to be donewith him. After all, Rule #19,833 clearly states that no villains are allowed within thecity limits. The usual punishment for breaking a rule is burning at the stake.”“Burning at the stake?” Violet said.“Of course,” an Elder said. “Whenever we capture rulebreakers, we tie them to awooden pole and light a fire underneath their feet. That’s why I warned you about thenumber of nuts on my hot fudge sundae. It would be a shame to light you on fire.”“You mean the punishment is the same, no matter what rule you break?” Klausasked.“Of course,” another Elder replied. “Rule #2 clearly states that anyone who breaksa rule is burned at the stake. If we didn’t burn a rule-breaker at the stake, we wouldbe rule breakers ourselves, and someone else would have to burn us at the stake.Understand?”“Sort of,” Violet said, although in truth she didn’t understand it at all. None of theBaudelaires did. Although they despised Count Olaf, the children didn’t like the ideaof lighting him on fire. Burning a villain at the stake felt like something a villainwould do rather than something done by fowl devotees.“But Count Olaf isn’t just a rulebreaker,” Klaus said, choosing his words verycarefully. “He has committed all sorts of terrible crimes. It would seem best to turnhim over to the authorities, rather than burning him at the stake.”“Well, that’s something we can talk about at the meeting,” a Councilwoman said,“and we’d better hurry or we’ll be late. Hector, get down from that ladder.”Hector didn’t answer, but he got down from the ladder and followed the threemembers of the Council of Elders away from Fowl Fountain, keeping his eyes on theground at all times. The Baudelaires followed Hector, their stomachs fluttering asthey walked through the uptown district to the downtown one, where the crows wereroosting as they had been yesterday, when the children had first arrived in V.F.D.Their stomachs were fluttering with relief and excitement, because they believed thatCount Olaf had been captured, but also with nervousness and fear, because they hatedthe idea that he might be burned at the stake. The punishment for V.F.D. rulebreakersmade the Baudelaires remember their parents’ deaths, and they didn’t like the idea ofanyone being lit on fire, no matter how vile a person they were. It was unpleasant tofeel relief, excitement, nervousness, and fear all at once, and by the time they arrivedat Town Hall, the stomachs of the Baudelaire orphans were as fluttery as the crows,which were muttering and scuffling as far as the eye could see.When one’s stomach is as fluttery as all that, it is nice to take a short break to liedown and perhaps sip a fizzy beverage, but there was no time for such things. Thethree members of the Council led the way to the large room in Town Hall decoratedwith portraits of crows. The room was in pandemonium, a phrase which here means“filled with Elders and townspeople standing around arguing.” The Baudelairesscanned the room for a sign of Olaf, but it was impossible to see anyone over thebobbing crow heads.“We need to begin the meeting!” called one of the Council. “Elders, find yourplaces on the bench. Townspeople, find your places on folding chairs.” Thetownspeople stopped talking at once and hurried into their seats, perhaps afraid thatthey would be burned at the stake if they didn’t sit down quickly enough. Violet andKlaus sat down next to Hector, who was still staring at the floor in silence, andpicked up Sunny so she could see.A Series of Unfortunate Events 7 - TheVile Village“Hector, place Officer Luciana and Count Olaf on the platform for discussion,” anElder ordered, as the last few townspeople sat down.“There’s no need,” called out a grand voice from the back of the room, and thechildren turned around to see Officer Luciana, with a big red grin beneath the visor ofher helmet. “I can get to the platform myself. After all, I’m the Chief of Police.”“That’s true,” another Elder said, and several other people on the bench noddedtheir crow hats in agreement as Luciana strolled to the platform, each of her blackboots making a loud clunk! on the shiny floor.“I’m proud to say,” Officer Luciana said proudly, “that I’ve already made the firstarrest of my career as Chief of Police. Isn’t that smashing?”“Hear, hear!” cried several townspeople.“And now,” Luciana continued, “let’s meet the man we’re all dying to burn at thestake — Count Olaf!”With a grand gesture, Officer Luciana stepped off the platform, clunked to theback of the room, and dragged a frightened-looking man out of a folding chair. Hewas dressed in a rumpled suit with a large rip across the shoulder, and a pair of shinysilver handcuffs. He wasn’t wearing any shoes or socks, and as Officer Lucianamarched him to the platform the children could see that he had a tattoo of an eye onhis left ankle, just like Count Olaf had. And when he turned his head and gazedaround the room, the children could see that he had only one eyebrow, instead of two,just like Count Olaf had. But the children could also see that he wasn’t Count Olaf.He wasn’t as tall as Count Olaf, and he wasn’t quite as thin, and there wasn’t dirtunder his fingernails, or a nasty and greedy look in his eyes. But most of all theBaudelaires could see that he wasn’t Count Olaf the way you could tell that a strangerwasn’t your uncle, even if he were wearing the same polka-dot coat and curly wigthat your uncle always wore. The three siblings looked at one another, and then at theman being dragged onto the platform, and they realized with a sinking feeling thatthey had been jumping to conclusions about Olaf’s capture.“Ladies and gentlemen,” Officer Luciana said, “and orphans, I give you CountOlaf!”“But I’m not Count Olaf!” the man cried. “My name is Jacques, and — ”“Silence!” commanded one of the meanest-looking members of the Council ofElders. “Rule #920 clearly states that no one may talk while on the platform.”“Let’s burn him at the stake!” cried a voice, and the children turned to see Mr.Lesko standing up and pointing at the trembling man on the platform. “We haven’tburned anyone at the stake for a long time!”Several members of the Council nodded their heads. “That’s a good point,” one ofthem said.“He’s Olaf, all right,” Mrs. Morrow called from the far side of the room. “He hasone eyebrow instead of two, and there’s a tattoo of an eye on his ankle.”“But lots of people have only one eyebrow,” Jacques cried, “and I have this tattooas part of my job.”“And your job is villain!” Mr. Lesko called out triumphantly. “Rule #19,833clearly states that no villains are allowed within the city limits, so we get to burn youat the stake!”“Hear, hear!” called several voices in agreement.“I’m not a villain!” Jacques said frantically. “I work for the volunteer — ”“Enough is enough!” said one of the youngest Elders. “Olaf, you have alreadybeen warned about Rule #920. You are not allowed to speak when you are on theplatform. Do any more citizens wish to speak before we schedule the burning of Olafat the stake?”Violet stood up, which is not an easy thing to do if your head is still spinning, yourlegs are still wobbly, and your body is still buzzing with astonishment. “I wish tospeak,” she said. “The town of V.F.D. is my guardian, and so I am a citizen.”Klaus, who had Sunny in his arms, stood up and took his place beside his sister.“This man,” he said, pointing at Jacques, “is not Count Olaf. Officer Luciana hasmade a mistake in arresting him, and we don’t want to make things worse by burningan innocent man at the stake.”Jacques gave the children a grateful smile, but Officer Luciana turned around andclunked over to where the Baudelaires were standing. The children could not see hereyes, because the visor on her helmet was still down, but her bright red lips curledinto a tight smile. “It is you who are making things worse,” she said, and then turnedto the Council of Elders. “Obviously, the shock of seeing Count Olaf has confusedthese children,” she said to them.“Of course it has!” agreed an Elder. “Speaking as a member of the town serving astheir legal guardian, I say that these children clearly need to be put to bed. Now, arethere any adults who wish to speak?”The Baudelaires looked over at Hector, in the hopes that he would overcome hisnervousness and stand up to speak. Surely he didn’t believe that the three siblingswere so confused that they didn’t know who Count Olaf was. But Hector did not riseto the occasion, a phrase which here means “continued to sit in his folding chair withhis eyes cast downward,” and after a moment the Council of Elders closed the matter.“I hereby close the matter,” an Elder said. “Hector, please take the Baudelaireshome.”“Yes!” called out a member of the Verhoogen family. “Put the orphans to bed andburn Olaf at the stake!”“Hear, hear!” several voices cried.One of the Council of Elders shook his head. “It’s too late to burn anyone at thestake today,” he said, and there was a mutter of disappointment from thetownspeople. “We will burn Count Olaf at the stake right after breakfast,” hecontinued. “All uptown residents should bring flaming torches, and all downtownresidents should bring wood for kindling and some sort of healthy snack. See youtomorrow.”“And in the meantime,” Officer Luciana announced, “I will keep him in theuptown jail, across from Fowl Fountain.”“But I’m innocent!” the man on the platform cried. “Please listen to me, I beg ofyou! I’m not Count Olaf! My name is Jacques!” He turned to the three siblings, whocould see he had tears in his eyes. “Oh, Baudelaires,” he said, “I am so relieved to seethat you are alive. Your parents — ”“That’s enough out of you,” Officer Luciana said, clasping her white-gloved handover Jacques’s mouth.“Pipit!” Sunny shrieked, which meant “Wait!” but Officer Luciana either didn’tlisten or didn’t care, and she quickly dragged Jacques out the door before he couldsay another word. The townspeople rose up in their folding chairs to watch him go,and then began talking among themselves as the Council of Elders left the bench. TheBaudelaires saw Mr. Lesko share a joke with the Verhoogen family, as if the entireevening had been a jolly party instead of a meeting sentencing an innocent man todeath. “Pipit!” Sunny shrieked again, but nobody listened. His eyes still on the floor,Hector took Violet and Klaus by the hand and led them out of Town Hall. Thehandyman did not say a word, and the Baudelaires didn’t, either. Their stomachs felttoo fluttery and their hearts too heavy to even open their mouths. As they left thecouncil meeting without another glimpse of Jacques or Officer Luciana, they felt apain even worse than that of jumping to conclusions. The children felt as if they hadjumped off a cliff, or jumped in front of a moving train. As they stepped out of TownHall into the still night air, the Baudelaire orphans felt as if they would never jumpfor joy again.which is where the Baudelaire orphans found themselves that night. Finding yourselfin a quandary means that everything seems confusing and dangerous and you don’t knowwhat in the world to do about it, and it is one of the worst unpleasantries you canencounter. The three Baudelaires sat in Hector’s kitchen as the handyman preparedanother Mexican dinner, and compared with the quandary they were in, all their otherproblems felt like the small potatoes he was chopping into thirds.“Everything seems confusing,” Violet said glumly. “The Quagmire triplets aresomewhere nearby, but we don’t know where, and the only clues we have are twoconfusing poems. And now, there’s a man who isn’t Count Olaf, but he has an eyetattooed on his ankle, and he wanted to tell us something about our parents.”“It’s more than confusing,” Klaus said. “It’s dangerous. We need to rescue theQuagmires before Count Olaf does something dreadful, and we need to convince theCouncil of Elders that the man they arrested is really Jacques, otherwise they’ll burnhim at the stake.”“Quandary?” Sunny said, which meant something along the lines of “What in theworld can we do about it?”“I don’t know what we can do about it, Sunny,” Violet replied. “We spent all daytrying to figure out what the poems meant, and we tried our best to convince theCouncil of Elders that Officer Luciana made a mistake.” She and her siblings lookedat Hector, who had certainly not tried his best with the Council of Elders but insteadhad sat in his folding chair without saying a word.Hector sighed and looked unhappily at the children. “I know I should have saidsomething,” he told them, “but I was far too skittish. The Council of Elders is soimposing that I can never say a word in their presence. However, I can think ofsomething that we can do to help.”“What is it?” Klaus asked.“We can enjoy these huevos rancheros,” he said. “Huevos rancheros are fried eggsand beans, served with tortillas and potatoes in a spicy tomato sauce.”The siblings looked at one another, trying to imagine how a Mexican dish wouldget them out of their quandary. “How will that help?” Violet asked doubtfully.“I don’t know,” Hector admitted. “But they’re almost ready, and my recipe is adelicious one, if I do say so myself. Come on, let’s eat. Maybe a good dinner willhelp you think of something.”The children sighed, but nodded their heads in agreement and got up to set thetable, and curiously enough, a good dinner did in fact help the Baudelaires think ofsomething. As Violet took her first bite of beans, she felt the gears and levers of herinventing brain spring into action. As Klaus dipped his tortilla into the spicy tomatosauce, he began to think of books he had read that might be helpful. And as Sunnysmeared egg yolks all over her face, she clicked her four sharp teeth together andtried to think of a way that they might be useful. By the time the Baudelaires werefinishing the meal Hector had prepared for them, their ideas had grown anddeveloped into full-fledged plans, just as Nevermore Tree had grown a long time agofrom a tiny seed and Fowl Fountain had been built recently from someone’s hideousblueprint.It was Sunny who spoke up first. “Plan!” she said.“What is it, Sunny?” Klaus asked.With a tiny finger covered in tomato sauce, Sunny pointed out the window atNevermore Tree, which was covered in the V.F.D. crows as it was every evening.“Merganser!” she said firmly.“My sister says that tomorrow morning there will probably be another poem fromIsadora in the same spot,” Klaus explained to Hector. “She wants to spend the nightunderneath the tree. She’s so small that whoever is delivering the poems probablywon’t spot her, and she’ll be able to find out how the couplets are getting to us.”“And that should bring us closer to finding the Quagmires,” Violet said. “That’s agood plan, Sunny.”“My goodness, Sunny,” Hector said. “Won’t you be frightened spending all nightunderneath a whole murder of crows?”“Therill,” Sunny said, which meant “It won’t be any more frightening than thetime I climbed up an elevator shaft with my teeth.”“I think I have a good plan, too,” Klaus said. “Hector, yesterday you told us aboutthe secret library you have in the barn.”“Ssh!” Hector said, looking around the kitchen. “Not so loud! You know it’sagainst the rules to have all those books, and I don’t want to be burned at the stake.”“I don’t want anyone to be burned at the stake,” Klaus said. “Now, does the secretlibrary contain books about the rules of V.F.D.?”“Absolutely,” Hector said. “Lots of them. Because the rule books describe peoplebreaking the rules, they break Rule #108, which clearly states that the V.F.D. librarycannot contain any books that break any of the rules.”“Well, I’m going to read as many rule books as I can,” Klaus said. “There mustbe a way to save Jacques from being burned at the stake, and I bet I’ll find it in thepages of those books.”“My word, Klaus,” Hector said. “Won’t you be bored reading all those rulebooks?” “It won’t be any more boring than the time I had to read all about grammar,in order to save Aunt Josephine,” he replied.“Sunny is working to save the Quagmires,” Violet said, “and Klaus is working tosave Jacques. I’ve got to work to save us.”“What do you mean?” Klaus asked.“Well, I think Count Olaf must be behind all this trouble,” Violet said.“Grebe!” Sunny said, which meant “As usual!”“If the town of V.F.D. burns Jacques at the stake,” Violet continued, “theneveryone will think Count Olaf is dead. I bet The Daily Punctilio will even have astory that says so. It will be very good news for Olaf — the real one, that is. Ifeveryone thinks he’s dead, Olaf can be as treacherous as he likes, and the authoritieswon’t come looking for him.”“That’s true,” Klaus said. “Count Olaf must have found Jacques — whoever he is— and brought him into town. He knew that Officer Luciana would think he wasOlaf. But what does that have to do with saving us?”“Well, if we rescue the Quagmires and prove that Jacques is innocent,” Violet said,“Count Olaf will come after us, and we can’t rely on the Council of Elders to protectus.”“Poe!” Sunny said.“Or Mr. Poe,” Violet agreed. “That’s why we’ll need a way to save ourselves.” Sheturned to Hector. “Yesterday, you also told us about your self-sustaining hot airmobile home.”Hector looked around the kitchen again, to sure no one was listening. “Yes,” hesaid, “but I think I’m going to stop work on it. If the Council of Elders learns that I’mbreaking Rule #67, I could be burned at the stake. Anyway, I can’t seem to get theengine to work.”“If you don’t mind, I’d like to take a look at it ” Violet said. “Maybe I could helpfinish it. You wanted to use the self-sustaining hot air mobile home to escape fromV.F.D. and the Council of Elders and everything else that makes you skittish, but itwould also make an excellent escape vehicle.”“Maybe it could be both,” Hector said shyly, and reached across the table to patSunny on the shoulder. “I very much enjoy the company of you three children, and itwould be delightful to share a mobile home with you. There’s plenty of room in theself-sustaining hot air mobile home, and once we get it to work we could launch itand never come down. Count Olaf and his associates would never be able to botheryou again. What do you think?”The three Baudelaires listened closely to Hector’s suggestion, but when they triedto tell him what they thought, it felt like they were in a quandary all over again. Onone hand, it would be exciting to live in such an unusual way, and the thought ofbeing safe forever from Count Olaf’s evil clutches was very appealing, to say theleast. Violet looked at her baby sister and thought about the promise she had made,when Sunny was born, that she would always look after her younger siblings andmake sure they wouldn’t get into trouble. Klaus looked at Hector, who was the onlycitizen in this vile village who really seemed to care about the children, as a guardianshould. And Sunny looked out the window at the evening sky, and remembered thefirst time she and her siblings saw the V.F.D. crows fly in superlative circles andwished that they, too, could escape from all their worries. But on the other hand, theBaudelaires felt that flying away from all their trouble, and living forever up in thesky, didn’t seem to be a proper way to live one’s life. Sunny was a baby, Klaus wasonly twelve, and even Violet, the eldest, was fourteen, which is not really so old. TheBaudelaires had many things they hoped to accomplish on the ground, and theyweren’t sure that they could simply abandon all those hopes so early in their lives.The Baudelaires sat at the table and thought about Hector’s plan, and it seemed to thechildren that if they spent the rest of their lives floating around the heavens, theysimply wouldn’t be in their element, a phrase which here means “in the sort of homethe three siblings would prefer.”“First things first,” Violet said finally, hoping that she wasn’t hurting Hector’sfeelings. “Before we make a decision about the rest of our lives, let’s get Duncan andIsadora outof Olaf’s clutches.”“And make sure Jacques won’t be burned at the stake,” Klaus said.“Albico!” Sunny added, which meant something like, “And let’s solve the mysteryof V.F.D. that the Quagmires told us about!”Hector sighed. “You’re right,” he said. “Those things are more important, even ifthey do make me skittish. Well, let’s take Sunny to the tree and then it’s off to thebarn, where the library and inventing studio are. It looks like it’s going to be anotherlong night, but hopefully this time we won’t be barking up the wrong tree.”The Baudelaires smiled at the handyman and followed him out into the night,which was cool and breezy and filled with the sounds of the murder of crows settlingdown for the night. They kept on smiling as they separated, with Sunny crawlingtoward Nevermore Tree and the two older Baudelaires following Hector to the barn,and they continued to smile as they began to put each of their plans into action. Violetsmiled because Hector’s inventing studio was very well-equipped, with plenty ofpliers and glue and wire and everything her inventing brain needed, and becauseHector’s selfsustaining hot air mobile home was an enormous, fascinatingmechanism — just the sort of challenging invention she loved to work on. Klaussmiled because Hector’s library was very comfortable, with some good sturdy tablesand cushioned chairs just perfect for reading in, and because the books on the rules ofV.F.D. were very thick and full of difficult words — just the sort of challengingreading he enjoyed. And Sunny smiled because there were several dead branches ofNevermore Tree that had fallen to the ground, so she would have something to gnawon as she hid and waited for the next couplet to arrive. The children were in theirelements. Violet was in her element at the inventing studio, and Klaus was in hiselement at the library, and Sunny was in hers just from being low to the ground andnear something she could bite. Violet tied her hair up in a ribbon to keep it out of hereyes, and Klaus polished his glasses, and Sunny stretched her mouth to get her teethready for the task ahead of her, and the three siblings smiled more than they had sincetheir arrival in town. The Baudelaire orphans were in their elements, and they hopedthat being in their elements would lead them out of their quandary.The next morning began with a colorful and lengthy sunrise, which Sunny sawfrom her hiding place at the bottom of Nevermore Tree. It continued with the soundsof awakening crows, which Klaus heard from the library in the barn, and followedwith the sight of the birds making their familiar circle in the sky, which Violet sawjust as she was leaving the inventing studio. By the time Klaus joined his sisteroutside the barn, and Sunny crawled across the flat landscape to reach them, the birdshad stopped circling and were flying together uptown, and the morning was so prettyand peaceful that as I describe it I can almost forget that it was a very, very sadmorning for me, a morning that I wish I could strike forever from the Snicketcalendar. But I can’t erase this day, any more than I can write a happy ending to thisbook, for the simple reason that the story does not go that way. No matter how lovelythe morning was, or how confident the Baudelaires felt about what they haddiscovered over the course of the night, there isn’t a happy ending on the horizon ofthis story, any more than there was an elephant on the horizon of V.F.D.“Good morning,” Violet said to Klaus, and yawned.“Good morning,” Klaus replied. He was holding two books in his arms, butnevertheless he managed to wave at Sunny, who was still crawling toward them.“How did everything go with Hector in the inventing studio?”“Well, Hector fell asleep a few hours ago,” Violet said, “but I discovered a fewsmall flaws in the self-sustaining hot air mobile home. The engine conductivity waslow, due to some problems with the electromagnetic generator Hector built. Thismeant that the inflation rate of the balloons was often uneven, so I reconfigured somekey conduits. Also, the water circulation system was run on ill-fitting pipes, whichmeant that the selfsustaining aspect of the food center probably wouldn’t last as longas it should, so I rerouted some of the aquacycling.”“Ning!” Sunny called, as she reached her siblings.“Good morning, Sunny,” Klaus said. “Violet was just telling me that she noticed afew things wrong with Hector’s invention, but she thinks she fixed them.”“Well, I’d like to test the whole device out before we go up in it, if there’s time,”Violet said, picking up Sunny and holding her, “but I think everything should workpretty well. It’s a fantastic invention. A small group of people could really spend therest of their lives safely in the air. Did you discover anything in the library?”“Well, first I discovered that books about V.F.D. rules are actually quitefascinating,” Klaus said. “Rule #19, for instance, clearly states that the only pens thatare acceptable within the city limits are ones made from the feathers of crows. Andyet Rule #39 clearly states that it is illegal to make anything out of crow feathers.How can the townspeople obey both rules at once?”“Maybe they don’t have any pens at all,” Violet said, “but that’s not important. Didyou discover anything helpful in the rule books?”“Yes,” Klaus said, and opened one of the books he was carrying. “Listen to this:Rule #2,493 clearly states that any person who is going to be burned at the stake hasthe opportunity to make a speech right before the fire is lit. We can go to the uptownjail this morning and make sure Jacques gets that opportunity. In his speech, he cantell people who he really is, and why he has that tattoo.”“But he tried to do that yesterday at the meeting,” Violet said. “Nobody believedhim. Nobody even listened to him.”“I was thinking the same thing,” Klaus said, opening the second book, “until I readthis.”“Towhee?” Sunny asked, which meant something like “Is there a rule that clearlystates that people must listen to speeches?”“No,” Klaus replied. “This isn’t a rule book. This is a book about psychology, thestudy of the mind. It was removed from the library because there’s a chapter aboutthe Cherokee tribe of North America. They make all sorts of things out of feathers,which breaks Rule #39.”“That’s ridiculous,” Violet said.“I agree,” Klaus said, “but I’m glad this book was here, instead of in town,because it gave me an idea. There’s a chapter here about mob psychology.”“Wazay?” Sunny asked.“A mob is a crowd of people,” Klaus explained, “usually an angry one.”“Like the townspeople and the Council of Elders yesterday,” Violet said, “in TownHall. They were incredibly angry.”“Exactly,” Klaus said. “Now listen to this.” The middle Baudelaire opened thesecond book and began to read out loud. “‘The subliminal emotional tenor of a mob’sunruliness lies in solitary opinions, expressed emphatically at various points in thestereo field.’”“Tenor? Stereo?” Violet asked. “It sounds like you’re talking about opera.”“The book uses a lot of complicated words,” Klaus said, “but luckily there was adictionary in Hector’s library. It had been removed from V.F.D. because it defined thephrase ‘mechanical device.’ All that sentence means is that if a few people, scatteredthroughout the crowd, begin to shout their opinions, soon the whole mob will agreewith them. It happened in the council meeting yesterday — a few people said angrythings, and soon the whole room was angry-”“Vue,” Sunny said, which meant “Yes, I remember.”“When we get to the jail,” Klaus said, “we’ll make sure that Jacques is allowed togive his speech. Then, as he explains himself, we’ll scatter ourselves throughout the crowdand shout things like, ‘I believe him!’ and ‘Hear, hear!’ Mob psychology should makeeveryone demand Jacques’s freedom.”“Do you really think that will work?” Violet asked.“Well, I’d prefer to test it first,” Klaus said, “just like you’d prefer to test theselfsustaining hot air mobile home. But we don’t have time. Now, Sunny, what didyou discover from spending the night under a tree?”Sunny held up one of her small hands to show them another scrap of paper.“Couplet!” she cried out triumphantly, and her siblings gathered around to read it.The first thing you read contains the clue: An initial way to speak to you.“Good work, Sunny,” Violet said. “This is definitely another poem by IsadoraQuagmire.”“And it seems to lead us back to the first poem,” Klaus said. “It says ‘The firstthing you read contains the clue.’”“But what does ‘An initial way to speak to you’ mean?” Violet asked. “Initials,like V.F.D.?”“Maybe,” Klaus replied, “but the word ‘initial’ can also mean ‘first.’ I thinkIsadora means that this is the first way she can speak to us — through these poems.”“But we already know that,” Violet said. “The Quagmires wouldn’t have to tell us.Let’s look at all the poems together. Maybe it will give us a complete picture.”Violet took the other two poems out of her pocket, and the three children looked atthem together.For sapphires we are held in here.Only you can end our fear.Until dawn comes we cannot speak.No words can come from this sad beak.The first thing you read contains the clue:An initial way to speak to you .“The part about the beak is still the most confusing,” Klaus said.“Leucophrys!” Sunny said, which meant “I think I can explain that — the crowsare delivering the couplets.”“How can that be possible?” Violet asked.“Loidya!” Sunny answered. She meant something like “I’m absolutely sure thatnobody approached the tree all night, and at dawn the note dropped down from thebranches of the tree.”“I’ve heard of carrier pigeons,” Klaus said “Those are birds that carry messagesfor a living But I’ve never heard of carrier crows.”“Maybe they don’t know that they’re carrier crows,” Violet said. “The Quagmirescould be attaching the scraps of paper to the crows in some way — putting them intheir beaks, or in their feathers — and then the poems come loose when they sleep inNevermore Tree. The triplets must be somewhere in town. But where?”“Ko!” Sunny cried, pointing to the poems.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said excitedly. “It says ‘Until dawn comes we cannotspeak.’ That means they’re attaching the poems in the morning, when the crows roostuptown.”“Well, that’s one more reason to get uptown,” Violet replied. “We can save Jacquesbefore he’s burned at the stake, and search for the Quagmires. Without you, Sunny,we wouldn’t know where to look for the Quagmires.”“Hasserin,” Sunny said, which meant “And without you, Klaus, we wouldn’t knowhow to save Jacques.”“And without you, Violet,” Klaus said, “we’d have no chance of escaping fromthis town.”“And if we keep standing here,” Violet said, “we won’t save anybody. Let’s gowake up Hector, and get moving. The Council of Elders said they’d burn Jacques atthe stake right after breakfast.”“Yikes!” Sunny said, which meant “That doesn’t give us much time,” so theBaudelaires didn’t take much time walking into the barn and through Hector’s library,which was so massive that the two Baudelaire sisters could not believe Klaus hadmanaged to find helpful information among the shelves and shelves of books. Therewere bookshelves so tall you had to stand on a ladder to reach their highest shelves,and ones so short that you had to crawl on the floor to read their titles. There werebooks that looked too heavy to move, and books that looked too light to stay in oneplace, and there were books that looked so dull that the sisters could not imagineanyone reading them — but these were the books that were still stacked in hugeheaps spread out on the tables after Klaus’s all-night reading session. Violet andSunny wanted to pause for a moment and take it all in, but they knew that they didn’thave much time.Behind the last bookshelf of the library was Hector’s inventing studio, whereKlaus and Sunny got their first glimpse of the self-sustaining hot air mobile home,which was a marvelous contraption. Twelve enormous baskets, each about the size ofa small room, were stacked up in the corner, connected by all sorts of different tubes,pipes, and wires, and circled around the baskets were a series of large metal tanks,wooden grates, glass jugs, paper bags, plastic containers, and rolls of twine, alongwith a number of large mechanical devices with buttons, switches, and gears, and abig pile of deflated balloons. The self-sustaining hot air mobile home was soimmense and complicated that it reminded the two younger Baudelaires of what theythought of when they pictured Violet’s inventive brain, and every piece of it lookedso interesting that Klaus and Sunny could scarcely decide what to look at first. Butthe Baudelaires knew that they didn’t have much time, so rather than explain theinvention to her siblings, Violet walked quickly over to one of the baskets, whichKlaus and Sunny were surprised to see contained a bed, which in turn contained asleeping Hector.“Good morning,” the handyman said, when Violet gently shook him awake.“It is a good morning,” she replied. “We’ve discovered some marvelous things.We’ll explain everything on our way uptown.”“Uptown?” Hector said, stepping out of the basket. “But the crows are roostinguptown. We do the downtown chores in the morning, remember?”“We’re not doing any chores this morning,” Klaus said firmly. “That’s one of thethings we need to explain.”Hector yawned, stretched and rubbed his eyes, and then smiled at the threechildren “Well, fire away,” he said, using a phrase which here means “begin tellingme about your plans.”The siblings led Hector back through his inventing studio and secret library andwaited while he locked up the barn. Then, as they took their first few steps across theflat landscape toward the uptown district, the Baudelaire orphans fired away. Violettold Hector about the improvements she had made on his invention, and Klaus toldhim about what he had learned in Hector’s library, and Sunny told him — with sometranslation help from her siblings — about her discovery of how Isadora’s poemswere being delivered. By the time the Baudelaires were unrolling the last scrap ofpaper and showing Hector the third couplet, they had already reached the crowcovered outskirts of V.F.D.‘s uptown district.“So the Quagmires are somewhere in the uptown district,” Hector said. “Butwhere?”“I don’t know,” Violet admitted, “but we’d better try to save Jacques first. Whichway is the uptown jail?” Violet asked Hector.“It’s across from Fowl Fountain,” the handyman replied, “but it looks like wewon’t need directions. Look what’s ahead of us.”The children looked, and could see some of the townspeople holding flamingtorches and walking about a block ahead of them. “It must be after breakfast,” Klaussaid. “Let’s hurry.”The Baudelaires walked as quickly as they could between the muttering crowsroosting on the ground, with Hector trailing skittishly behind them, and soon theyrounded a corner and reached Fowl Fountain — or at least what they could see of it.The fountain was swarming with crows who were fluttering their wings in the waterin order to give themselves a morning bath, and the Baudelaires could scarcely seeone metal feather of the hideous landmark Across the courtyard was a building withbars on the windows and crows on the bars, and the torch-carrying citizens werestanding in a half circle around the door of the building. More of V.F.D.‘s citizenswere arriving from every direction, and the three children could see a few crowhatted members of the Council of Elders standing together and listening to somethingMrs. Morrow was saying.“It seems we arrived in the nick of time,” Violet said. “We’d better scatterourselves throughout the crowd. Sunny, you move to the far left. I’ll take the farright.”“Roger!” Sunny said, and began crawling her way through the half circle ofpeople.“I think I’ll just stay here,” Hector said quietly, looking down at the ground, butthe children had no time to argue with him. Klaus began to walk straight down themiddle of the crowd.“Wait!” Klaus called, moving with difficulty through the people. “Rule #2,493clearly states that any person who is going to be burned at the stake has theopportunity to make a speech right before the fire is lit!”“Yes!” Violet cried, from the right-hand side of the crowd. “Let Jacques be heard!”Officer Luciana stepped right in front of Violet, who almost bumped her head onthe Chief’s shiny helmet. Beneath the visor of the helmet Violet could see Luciana’slipsticked mouth rise in a very small smile. “It’s too late for that,” she said, and a fewtownspeople around her murmured in agreement. With a clunk! of one boot, shestepped aside and let Violet see what had happened. From the left-hand side of thecrowd, Sunny crawled over the shoes of the person standing closest to the jail, andKlaus peered over Mr. Lesko’s shoulder to get a good look at what everyone wasstaring at. Jacques was lying on the ground with his eyes closed, and two members ofthe Council of Elders were pulling a white sheet over him, as if they were tuckinghim in for a nap. But as dearly as I wish I could write that it was so, he was notsleeping. The Baudelaires had reached the uptown jail before the citizens of V.F.Dcould burn him at the stake, but they still had not arrived in the nick of time.and pointed at Jacques with a sleeve of her robe. “Before he could be burned at thestake Count Omar was murdered mysteriously in his jail cell.”“Count Olaf’,” corrected Violet automatically.“So you’re finally admitting that you know who he is!” she cried triumphantly.“We don’t know who he is!” Klaus insisted, picking up his baby sister, who wasquietly beginning to cry. “We only know that he is an innocent man!”Officer Luciana clunked forward, and the crowd of townspeople and Elders partedto let her walk right up to the children. “I don’t think this is a matter for children todiscuss,” she said, and raised her white-gloved hands in the air to get the crowd’sattention.“Citizens of V.F.D.,” she said grandly, “I locked Count Olaf in the uptown jail lastnight, and when I arrived here in the morning he had been killed. I have the only keyto the jail, so his death is quite a mystery.”“A mystery!” Mrs. Morrow said excitedly, as the townspeople murmured behindher. “What a thrill, to be hearing about a mystery!”“Shoart!” Sunny said tearfully. She meant something like “A dead man is not athrill!” but only her siblings were listening to her.“You will all be happy to know that the famous Detective Dupin has agreed toinvestigate this murder,” Officer Luciana continued. “He is inside the uptown jailright now, examining the scene of the crime.”“The famous Detective Dupin!” Mr. Lesko said. “Just imagine!”“I’ve never heard of him,” said a nearby Elder.“Me neither,” Mr. Lesko admitted, “but I’m sure he’s very famous.”“What happened?” Violet asked, trying not to look at the white sheet on theground. “How was Jacques killed? Why wasn’t anybody guarding him? How couldsomeone have gotten into his cell if you locked it?”Luciana turned around and faced Violet who could see her own astonishedreflection in the policewoman’s shiny helmet. “As I said before,” Luciana said again,“I don’t think this is a matter for children to discuss. Perhaps that man in overallsshould take you children to a playground instead of a murder scene.”“Or downtown, to do the morning chores,” another Elder said, his crow hatnodding. “Hector, take the orphans away.”“Not so fast,” called a voice from the doorway of the uptown jail. It was a voice,I’m sorry to say, that the Baudelaire orphans recognized in an instant. The voice waswheezy, and scratchy, and it had a sinister smile to it, as if the person talking weretelling a joke. But it was not a voice that made the children want to laugh at a punchline. It was a voice the children recognized from all of the places they had traveledsince their parents had died, and a voice the children knew from all their mostdispleasing nightmares. It was the voice of Count Olaf.The children’s hearts sank, and they turned to see Olaf standing in the doorway ofthe jail, wearing another one of his absurd disguises. He was wearing a turquoiseblazer that was so brightly colored that it made the Baudelaires squint, and a pair ofsilver pants decorated with tiny mirrors that glinted in the morning sun. A pair ofenormous sunglasses covered the entire upper half of his face, hiding his oneeyebrow and his shiny, shiny eyes. On his feet were a pair of bright green plasticshoes with yellow plastic lightning bolts sticking out of them, covering his ankle andhiding his tattoo. But most unpleasant of all was the fact that Olaf was wearing noshirt, only a thick gold chain with a detective’s badge in the center of it. TheBaudelaires could see his pale and hairy chest peeking out at them, and it added anextra layer of unpleasantness to their fear.“It’s just not cool,” Count Olaf said, snapping his fingers to emphasize the word“cool”, “to dismiss suspects from the scene of the crime until Detective Dupin givesthe O.K.”“But surely the orphans aren’t suspects ” one of the Elders said. “They’re onlychildren after all.”“It’s just not cool,” Count Olaf said, snapping his fingers again, “to disagree withDetective Dupin.”“I agree,” Officer Luciana said, and gave Olaf a big lipstick smile as he steppedthrough the doorway. “Now let’s get down to business, Dupin. Do you have anyimportant information?”“We have some important information,” Klaus said boldly. “This man is notDetective Dupin.” There were a few gasps from the crowd. “He’s Count Olaf.”“You mean Count Omar,” Mrs. Morrow said.“We mean Olaf,” Violet said, and then turned so that she was looking Count Olafright in the sunglasses. “Those sunglasses may be hiding your eyebrow, and thoseshoes may be hiding your tattoo, but you can’t hide your identity. You’re Count Olaf,and you’ve kidnapped the Quagmire triplets and murdered Jacques.”“Who in the world is Jacques?” asked an Elder. “I’m confused.”“It’s not cool,” Olaf said with a snap, “to be confused, so let me see if I can helpyou.” He pointed at himself with a flourish. “I am the famous Detective Dupin. I amwearing these plastic shoes and sunglasses because they’re cool. Count Olaf is thename of the man who was murdered last night, and these three children …” — hereOlaf paused to make sure everyone was listening — “are responsible for the crime.”“Don’t be ridiculous, Olaf,” Klaus said disgustedly.Olaf smiled nastily at all three Baudelaires. “You are making a mistake when youcall me Count Olaf,” he said, “and if you continue to call me that, you will seeexactly how big a mistake you are making.” Detective Dupin turned and looked up toaddress the crowd. “Of course the biggest mistake these children have made isthinking they can get away with murder.”There was a murmur of agreement from the crowd. “I never trusted those kids,”Mrs. Morrow said. “They didn’t do a very good job when they trimmed my hedges.”“Show them the evidence,” Officer Luciana said, and Detective Dupin snapped hisfingers.“It’s not cool,” he said, “to accuse people of murder without any evidence, butluckily I found some.” He reached into the pocket of his blazer and brought out along pink ribbon decorated with plastic daisies. “I found this right outside CountOlaf’s jail cell,” he said. “It’s a ribbon — the exact kind of ribbon that VioletBaudelaire uses to tie up her hair.”The townspeople gasped, and Violet turned to see that the citizens of V.F.D. werelooking at her with suspicion and fear, which are not pleasant ways to be looked at.“That’s not my ribbon!” Violet cried, taking her own hair ribbon of her pocket.“My hair ribbon is right here!”“How can we tell?” an Elder asked with a frown. “All hair ribbons look alike.”“They don’t look alike!” Klaus said. “The one found at the murder scene is fancyand pink. My sister prefers plain ribbons, and she hates the color pink!”“And inside the cell,” Detective Dupin continued, as if Klaus had not spoken, “Ifound this.” He held up a small circle made of glass. “This is one of the lenses inKlaus’s glasses.”“But my glasses aren’t missing any lenses!” Klaus cried, as everyone turned tolook at him in suspicion and fear. He took his glasses off and showed them to thecrowd. “You can see for yourself.”“Just because you have replaced your ribbon and your lenses,” Officer Lucianasaid, “doesn’t mean you’re not murderers.”“Actually, they’re not murderers,” Detective Dupin said. “They’re accomplices.”He leaned forward so he was right in the Baudelaires’ faces, and the children couldsmell his sour breath as he continued talking. “You orphans are not smart enough toknow what the word ‘accomplice’ means, but it means ‘helper of murderers.’”“We know what the word ‘accomplice’ means,” Klaus said. “What are you talkingabout?”“I’m talking about the four toothmarks on Count Olaf’s body,” Detective Dupinsaid, with a snap of his fingers. “There’s only one person uncool enough to bitepeople to death, and that’s Sunny Baudelaire.”“It’s true that her teeth are sharp,” another member of the Council said. “I noticedthat when she served my hot fudge sundae.”“Our sister didn’t bite anyone to death,” Violet said indignantly, a word which heremeans “in defense of an innocent baby.” “Detective Dupin is lying!”“It’s not cool to accuse me of lying,” Dupin replied. “Instead of accusing otherpeople of things, why don’t you three children tell us where you were last night?”“We were at Hector’s house,” Klaus said. “He’ll tell you himself.” The middleBaudelaire stood up on tiptoe and called out over the crowd. “Hector! Tell everyonethat we were with you!”The citizens looked this way and that, the crow hats of the Elders bobbing as theylistened for a word from Hector. But no word came. The three children waited for amoment in the tense silence, thinking that surely Hector would overcome hisskittishness in order to save them. But the handyman was quiet. The only sounds thechildren could hear was the splashing of Fowl Fountain and the muttering of theroosting crows.“Hector sometimes gets skittish in front of crowds,” Violet explained, “but it’strue. I spent the night working in his studio, and Klaus was reading in the secretlibrary, and —”“Enough nonsense!” Officer Luciana said “Do you really expect us to believe thatour fine handyman is building mechanical devices and has a secret library? Next Isuppose you’ll say that he’s building things out of feathers!”“It’s bad enough that you killed Count Olaf,” an Elder said, “but now you’re tryingto frame Hector for other crimes! I say that V.F.D. no longer serve as guardian forsuch terrible orphans!”“Hear, hear!” cried several voices scattered in the crowd, just as the children hadplanned to do themselves.“I will send a message to Mr. Poe right away,” the Elder continued, “and thebanker will come and remove them in a few days.”“A few days is too long to wait!” Mrs. Morrow said, and several citizens cheeredin agreement. “These children need to be taken care of as quickly as possible.”“I say that we burn them at the stake!” cried Mr. Lesko, who stepped forward towag his finger at the children. “Rule #201 clearly says no murdering!”“But we didn’t murder anyone!” Violet cried. “A ribbon, a lens, and some bitemarks aren’t enough evidence to accuse someone of murder!”“It’s enough evidence for me!” an Elder cried. “We already have the torches —let’s burn them right now!”“Hold on a moment,” another Elder said. “We can’t simply burn people at thestake whenever we want!” The Baudelaires looked at one another, relieved that onecitizen seemed immune to mob psychology. “I have a very important appointment inten minutes,” the Elder continued. “So it’s too late to do it now. How about tonight,after dinner?”“That’s no good,” said another member of the Council. “I’m having a dinner partythen. How about tomorrow afternoon?”“Yes,” someone said from the crowd. “Right after lunch! That’s a perfect time!”“Hear, hear!” Mr. Lesko cried.“Hear, hear!” Mrs. Morrow cried.“Glaji!” Sunny cried.“Hector, help us!” Violet called. “Please tell these people that we’re notmurderers!”“I told you before,” Detective Dupin said, smiling beneath his sunglasses. “OnlySunny is a murderer. You two are accomplices, and I will put you all in jail whereyou belong.”Dupin grabbed Violet’s and Klaus’s wrists with one scraggly hand, and leaneddown to scoop up Sunny with the other. “See you tomorrow afternoon for the burningat the stake!” he called out to the rest of the crowd, and dragged the strugglingBaudelaires through the door of the uptown jail. The children stumbled into a dim,grim hallway, listening to the faint sounds of the mob cheering as the door slammedbehind them.“I’m putting you in the Deluxe Cell,” Dupin said. “It’s the dirtiest one.” Hemarched them down a dark hallway with many twists and turns, and the Baudelairescould see rows and rows of cells with their heavy doors hanging open. The only lightin the jail came from tiny barred windows placed in each cell, but the children sawthat every cell was empty and each one looked dirtier than the rest.“You’ll be the one in jail before long, Olaf,” Klaus said, hoping he sounded muchmore certain than he felt. “You’ll never get away with this.”“My name is Detective Dupin,” said Detective Dupin, “and my only concern isbringing you three criminals to justice.”“But if you burn us at the stake,” Violet said quickly, “you’ll never get your handson the Baudelaire fortune.”Dupin rounded the last corner of the hallway, and pushed the Baudelaires into asmall damp cell with only a small wooden bench as furniture. By the light of thebarred window the siblings could see that the cell was quite filthy, as Dupin hadpromised. The detective reached out to pull the door closed, but with his sunglasseson it was too dark to see the door handle, so he had to throw off all pretense — aphrase which here means “take off part of his disguise for a moment” — and removehis sunglasses. As much as the children hated Dupin’s ridiculous disguise, it wasworse to see their enemy’s one eyebrow, and the shiny, shiny eyes that had beenhaunting them for so long.A Series of Unfortunate Events 7 - TheVile Village“Don’t worry,” he said in his wheezy voice. “You won’t be burned at the stake —not all of you, at least. Tomorrow afternoon, one of you will make a miraculousescape — if you consider being smuggled out of V.F.D. by one of my assistants to bean escape. The other two will burn at the stake as planned. You bratty orphans are toostupid to realize it, but a genius like me knows that it may take a village to raise achild, but it only takes one child to inherit a fortune.” The villain laughed a loud andrude laugh, and began to shut the door of the cell. “But I don’t want to be cruel,” hesaid, smiling to indicate that he really wanted to be as cruel as possible. “I’ll let youthree decide who gets the honor of spending the rest of their puny life with me, andwho gets to burn at the stake. I’ll be back at lunchtime for your decision.”The Baudelaire orphans listened to the wheezy giggle of their enemy as heslammed the cell door and walked back down the hallway in his plastic shoes, andfelt a sinking feeling in their stomachs, where the huevos rancheros Hector had madefor them last night were still being digested. When something is being digested, ofcourse, it is getting smaller and smaller as the body uses up all of the nutrients insidethe food, but it didn’t feel that way to the three children. The youngsters did not feelas if the small potatoes they had eaten for dinner were getting smaller. TheBaudelaire orphans huddled together in the dim light and listened to the laughter echoagainst the walls of the uptown jail, and wondered just how large the potatoes of theirlives would grow.Entertaining a notion, like entertaining a baby cousin or entertaining a pack ofhyenas, is a dangerous thing to refuse to do. If you refuse to entertain a baby cousin,the baby cousin may get bored and entertain itself by wandering off and falling downa well. If you refuse to entertain a pack of hyenas, they may become restless andentertain themselves by devouring you. But if you refuse to entertain a notion —which is just a fancy way of saying that you refuse to think about a certain idea —you have to be much braver than someone who is merely facing some bloodthirstyanimals, or some parents who are upset to find their little darling at the bottom of awell, because nobody knows what an idea will do when it goes off to entertain itself,particularly if the idea comes from a sinister villain.“I don’t care what that horrible man says,” Violet said to her siblings as DetectiveDupin’s plastic footsteps faded away. “We’re not going to choose which one of uswill escape and who will be left to burn at the stake. I absolutely refuse to entertainthe notion.”“But what are we going to do?” Klaus asked. “Try to contact Mr. Poe?”“Mr. Poe won’t help us,” Violet replied. “He’ll think we’re ruining the reputationof his bank. We’re going to escape.”“Frulk!” Sunny said.“I know it’s a jail cell,” Violet said, “but there must be some way to get out.” Shepulled her ribbon out of her pocket and tied up her hair, her fingers shaking as she didso. The eldest Baudelaire had spoken confidently, but she did not feel as confident asshe sounded. A cell is built for the specific purpose of keeping people inside, and shewas not sure she could make an invention that could get the Baudelaires out of theuptown jail. But once her hair was out of her eyes, her inventing brain began to workat full force, and Violet took a good look around the cell for ideas. First she looked atthe door of the cell, examining every inch of it.“Do you think you could make another lockpick?” Klaus asked hopefully. “Youmade an excellent one when we lived with Uncle Monty.”“Not this time,” Violet replied. “The door locks from the outside, so a lockpickwould be of no use.” She closed her eyes for a moment in thought, and then lookedup at the tiny barred window. Her siblings followed her gaze, a phrase which heremeans “also looked at the window and tried to think of something helpful.”“Boiklio?” Sunny asked, which meant “Do you think you could make some morewelding torches, to melt the bars? You made some excel lent ones when we livedwith the Squalors.”“Not this time,” Violet said. “If I stood on the bench and Klaus stood on myshoulders and you stood on Klaus’s shoulders, we could probably reach the window,but even if we melted the bars, the window isn’t big enough to crawl through, evenfor Sunny.”“Sunny could call out the window,” Klaus said, “and try to attract the attention ofsomeone to come and save us.”“Thanks to mob psychology, every citizen of V.F.D. thinks that we’re criminals,”Violet pointed out. “No one is going to come rescue an accused murderer and heraccomplices.” She closed her eyes and thought again, and then knelt down to get acloser look at the wooden bench.“Rats,” she said.Klaus jumped slightly. “Where?” he said.“I don’t mean there are rats in the cell,” she said, hoping that she was speaking thetruth. “I just mean ‘Rats!’ I was hoping that the bench would be made of woodenboards held together with screws or nails. Screws and nails are always handy forinventions. But it’s just a solid, carved niece of wood, which isn’t handy at all.”Violet sat down on the solid, carved piece of wood and sighed. “I don’t know what Ican do,” she admitted.Klaus and Sunny looked at one another nervously. “I’m sure you’ll think ofsomething,” Klaus said.“Maybe you’ll think of something,” Violet replied, looking at her brother. “Theremust be something you’ve read that could help us.”It was Klaus’s turn to close his eyes in thought. “If you tilted the bench,” he said,after a pause, “it would become a ramp. The ancient Egyptians used ramps to buildthe pyramids.”“But we’re not trying to build a pyramid!” Violet cried in exasperation. “We’retrying to escape from jail!”“I’m just trying to be helpful!” Klaus cried. “If it weren’t for you and your sillyhair ribbons we wouldn’t have been arrested in the first place!”“And if it weren’t for your ridiculous glasses,” Violet snapped in reply, “wewouldn’t be here in this jail!”“Stop!” Sunny shrieked.Violet and Klaus glared angrily at one another for a moment, and then sighed.Violet moved over on the bench to make room for her siblings.“Come and sit down,” she said gloomily. “I’m sorry I yelled at you, Klaus. Ofcourse it’s not your fault that we’re here.”“It’s not yours, either,” Klaus said. “I’m just frustrated. Only a few hours ago wethought we’d be able to find the Quagmires and save Jacques.”“But we were too late to save Jacques,” Violet said, shuddering. “I don’t knowwho he was, or how he got his tattoo, but I know he wasn’t Count Olaf.”“Maybe he used to work with Count Olaf,” Klaus said. “He said the tattoo wasfrom his job. Do you think Jacques was in Olaf’s theater troupe?”“I don’t think so,” Violet said. “None of Olaf’s associates have that same tattoo. Ifonly Jacques were alive, he could solve the mystery.”“Pereg,” Sunny said, which meant “And if only the Quagmires were here, theycould solve the other mystery — the meaning of the real V.F.D.”“What we need,” Klaus said, “is deus ex machina.”“Who’s that?” Violet said.“It’s not a who,” Klaus said, “it’s a what. ‘Deus ex machina’ is a Latin term thatmeans ‘the god from the machine.’ It means the arrival of something helpful whenyou least expect it. We need to rescue two triplets from the clutches of a villain, andsolve the sinister mystery surrounding us, but we’re trapped in the filthiest cell of theuptown jail, and tomorrow afternoon we’re supposed to be burned at the stake. Itwould be a wonderful time for something helpful to arrive unexpectedly.”At that moment there was a knock on the door, and the sound of the lockunlatching. The heavy door of the Deluxe Cell creaked open and there stood OfficerLuciana, scowling at them from beneath the visor of her helmet and holding a loaf ofbread in one hand and a pitcher of water in the other. “If it were up to me, I wouldn’tbe doing this,” she said, “but Rule #141 clearly states that all prisoners receive breadand water, so here you go.” The Chief of Police thrust the loaf and the pitcher intoViolet’s hands and slammed the door shut, locking it behind her. Violet stared at theloaf of bread, which looked spongy and unappetizing, and at the water pitcher, whichwas decorated with a painting of seven crows flying in a circle. “Well, at least wehave some nourishment,” she said. “Our brains need food and water to workproperly.”She handed the pitcher to Sunny and the loaf to Klaus, who looked at the bread fora long, long time. Then, he turned to his sisters, who could see that his eyes werefilling up with tears.“I just remembered,” he said, in a quiet, sad voice. “It’s my birthday. I’m thirteentoday.”Violet put her hand on her brother’s shoulder. “Oh, Klaus,” she said. “It is yourbirthday. We forgot all about it.”“I forgot all about it myself, until this very moment,” Klaus said, looking back atthe loaf of bread. “Something about this bread made me remember my twelfthbirthday, when our parents made that bread pudding.”Violet put the pitcher of water down on the floor, and sat beside Klaus. “Iremember,” she said, smiling. “That was the worst dessert we ever tasted.”“Vom,” Sunny agreed.“It was a new recipe that they were trying out,” Klaus said. “They wanted it to bespecial for my birthday, but it was burned and sour and soggy. And they promisedthat the next year, for my thirteenth birthday, I’d have the best birthday meal in theworld.”He looked at his siblings, and had to take his glasses off to wipe away his tears. “Idon’t mean to sound spoiled,” he said, “but I was hoping for a better birthday mealthan bread and water in the Deluxe Cell of the uptown jail in the Village of FowlDevotees.”“Chift,” Sunny said, biting Klaus’s hand gently.Violet hugged him, and felt her own eyes fill up with tears as well. “Sunny’s right,Klaus. You don’t sound spoiled.”The Baudelaires sat together for a moment and cried quietly, entertaining thenotion of how dreadful their lives had become in such a short time. Klaus’s twelfthbirthday did not seem like such a long time ago, and yet their memories of the lousybread pudding seemed as faint and blurry as their first sight of V.F.D. on the horizon.It was a curious feeling, that something could be so close and so distant at the sametime, and the children wept for their mother and their father and all of the happythings in their life that had been taken away from them since that terrible day at thebeach.Finally, the children cried themselves out, and Violet wiped her eyes and struggledto give her brother a smile. “Klaus,” she said, “Sunny and I are prepared to offer youthe birthday gift of your choice. Anything at all that you want in the Deluxe Cell, youcan have.”“Thanks a lot,” Klaus said, smiling as he looked around the filthy room. “What I’dreally like is deus ex machina.”“Me, too,” Violet agreed, and took the pitcher of water from her sister to drinkfrom it. Before she even took a sip, however, she looked up, and stared at the far endof the cell. Putting down the pitcher, she quickly walked to the wall and rubbed somedirt away to see what the wall was made of. Then looked at her siblings and began tosmile. “Happy birthday, Klaus,” she said. “Officer Luciana brought us deus exmachina.”“She didn’t bring us a god in a machine ” Klaus said. “She brought water in apitcher.”“Brioche!” Sunny said, which meant “And bread!”“They’re the closest thing to a god in a machine that we’re going to get,” Violetsaid. “Now get up, both of you. We need the bench— it’ll be handy after all. It’sgoing to work as a ramp, just as Klaus said.”Violet placed the loaf of bread up against the wall, directly under the barredwindow, and then tilted the bench toward the same spot. “We’re going to pour thepitcher of water so it runs down the bench, and hits the wall,” she said. “Then it’ll rundown the wall to the bread, which will act like a sponge and soak up the water. Thenwe’ll squeeze the bread so the water goes into the pitcher, and start over.”“But what will that do?” Klaus asked.“The walls of this cell are made of bricks,” Violet said, “with mortar between thebricks to keep them together. Mortar is a type of clay that hardens like glue, so amortar dissolver would loosen the bricks and allow us to escape. I think we candissolve the mortar by pouring water on it.”“But how?” Klaus asked. “The walls are so solid, and water is so gentle.”“Water is one of the most powerful forces on earth,” Violet replied. “Ocean wavescan wear away at cliffs made of stone.”“Donax!” Sunny said, which meant something like, “But that takes years andyears, and if we don’t escape, we’ll be burned at the stake tomorrow afternoon.”“Then we’d better stop entertaining the notion, and start pouring the water,” Violetsaid. “We’ll have to keep it up all night if we want to dissolve the mortar. I’ll stand atthis end, propping up the bench. Klaus, you stand next to me and pour the water.Sunny, you stand near the bread, and bring it back to me when it’s soaked up all thewater. Ready?”Klaus took the pitcher in his hands and held it up to the end of the bench. Sunnycrawled over to the loaf of bread, which was only a little bit shorter than she was.“Ready!” the two younger Baudelaires said in unison, and together the threechildren Began to operate Violet’s mortar-dissolver. The water ran down the benchand hit the wall, and then ran down the wall and was soaked up in the spongy bread.Sunny quickly brought the bread to Klaus, who squeezed it into the pitcher, and theentire process began again. At first, it seemed as if the Baudelaires were barking upthe wrong tree, because the water seemed to have no more effect against the wall ofthe Deluxe Cell than a silk scarf would have against a charging rhinoceros, but itsoon became clear that water — unlike a silk scarf — is indeed one of the mostpowerful forces on earth. By the time the Baudelaires heard the flapping of the V.F.D.crows as they flew in a circle before heading downtown for their afternoon roost, themortar between the bricks was slightly mushy to the touch, and by the time the lastfew rays of the sun were shining through the tiny barred window, quite a bit of themortar had actually begun to wear away.“Grespo,” Sunny said, which meant something like, “Quite a bit of the mortar hasactually begun to wear away.”“That’s good news,” Klaus said. “If your invention saves our lives, Violet, it willbe the best birthday present you’ve ever given me, including that book of Finnishpoetry you bought me when I turned eight.”Violet yawned. “Speaking of poetry, why don’t we talk about Isadora Quagmire’scouplets? We still haven’t figured out where the triplets are hidden, and besides, if wekeep talking it’ll be easier to stay awake.”“Good idea,” Klaus said, and recited the poems from memory:“For sapphires we are held in here. Only you can end our fear.Until dawn comes we cannot speak. No words can come from this sad beak.The first thing you read contains the clue: An initial way to speak to you. “The Baudelaires listened to the poems and began to entertain every notion theycould think of that might help them figure out what the couplets meant. Violet heldthe bench in place, but her mind was on why the first poem began “For sapphires weare held in here,” when the Baudelaires already knew about the Quagmire fortune.Klaus poured the water out of the pitcher and let it run down to the wall, but his mindwas on the part of the poem that said “The first thing you read contains the clue,” andwhat exactly Isadora meant by “the clue.” Sunny monitored the loaf of bread as itsoaked up the water again and again, but her mind was on the last line of the lastpoem they had received, and what “An initial way to speak to you” could mean. Thethree Baudelaires operated Violet’s invention until morning, discussing Isadora’scouplets the entire time, and although the children made quite a lot of progressdissolving the mortar in the cell wall, they made no progress figuring out Isadora’spoems.“Water might be one of the most powerful forces on earth,” Violet said, as thechildren heard the first sounds of the V.F.D. crows arriving for their uptown roost,“but poetry might be the most confusing. We’ve talked and talked, and we still don’tknow where the Quagmires are hiding.”“We need another dose of deus ex machina ” Klaus said. “If something helpfuldoesn’t arrive soon, we won’t be able to rescue our friends even if we do escape fromthis cell.”“Psst!” came an unexpected voice from the window, startling the children so muchthat they almost dropped everything and wrecked the mortar-dissolver. TheBaudelaires looked up and saw the faint shape of somebody’s face behind the bars ofthe window.“Psst! Baudelaires!” the voice whispered.“Who is it?” Violet whispered back. “We can’t see you.”“It’s Hector,” Hector whispered. “I’m supposed to be downtown doing themorning chores, but I sneaked over here instead.”“Can you get us out of here?” Klaus whispered.For a few seconds, the children heard nothing but the sounds of the V.F.D. crowsmuttering and splashing in Fowl Fountain. Then Hector sighed. “No,” he admitted.“Officer Luciana has the only key, and this jail is made of solid brick. I don’t thinkthere’s a way I can get you out.”“Dala?” Sunny asked.“My sister means, did you tell the Council of Elders that we were with you thenight Jacques was murdered, so we couldn’t have committed the crime?”There was another pause. “No,” Hector said. “You know that the Council makesme too skittish to talk. I wanted to speak up for you when Detective Dupin wasaccusing you, but one look at those crow hats and I couldn’t open my mouth. But Ithought of one thing I can do to help.”Klaus put down the pitcher of water and felt the mortar on the far wall. Violet’sinvention seemed to be working quite well, but there was still no guarantee that itwould get them out of there before the mob of citizens arrived in the afternoon.“What’s that?” he asked Hector.“I’m going to get the self-sustaining hot air mobile home ready to go,” he said.“I’ll wait at the barn all afternoon, and if you somehow manage to escape, you canfloat away with me ”“O.K.,” Violet said, although she had been hoping for something a little morehelpful from a fully grown adult. “We’re trying to break out of this cell right now, somaybe we’ll make it.”“Well, if you’re breaking out now, I’d better go,” Hector said. “I don’t want to getin trouble. I just want to say that if you don’t make it and you are burned at the stake,it was very nice making your acquaintance. Oh — I almost forgot.”Hector’s fingers reached through the bars and dropped a rolled scrap of paperdown to the waiting Baudelaires. “It’s another couplet,” he said. “It doesn’t makesense to me, but maybe you’ll find it helpful. Good-bye, children. I do hope I see youlater.”“Good-bye, Hector,” Violet said glumly. “I hope so too.”‘“Bye,” Sunny muttered.Hector waited for a second, expecting Klaus say good-bye, but then walked offwithout another word, his footsteps fading into the sounds of the muttering, splashingcrows. Violet and Sunny turned to look at their brother, surprised that he had not saidgoodbye, although Hector’s visit had been such a disappointment that they couldunderstand if Klaus was too annoyed to be polite. But when they looked at the middleBaudelaire, he did not look annoyed. Klaus was looking at the latest couplet fromIsadora, and in the growing light of the Deluxe Cell his sisters could see a wide grinon his face. Grinning is something you do when you are entertained in some way,such as reading a good book or watching someone you don’t care for spill orangesoda all over himself. But there weren’t any books in the uptown jail, and theBaudelaires had been careful not to spill a drop of the water as they operated themortar-dissolver, so the Baudelaire sisters knew that their brother was grinning foranother reason.He was grinning because he was entertaining a notion, and as Klaus showed themthe poem he was holding, Violet and Sunny had a very good idea of what notion itwas.“Think about all four poems in order, and you’ll see what I mean.”For sapphires we are held in here. Only you can end our fear. Until dawn comes wecannot speak. No words can come from this sad beak. The first thing you read contains theclue: An initial way to speak to you. Inside these letters the eye will see Nearby are yourfriends, and V.F.D.“I think you’re much better at analyzing poetry than I am,” Violet said, and Sunnynodded in agreement. “This poem doesn’t make it any clearer.”“But you’re the one who first suggested the solution,” Klaus said. “When wereceived the third poem, you thought that ‘initial’ meant ‘initials,’ like V.F.D.”“But you said that it probably meant ‘first,’” Violet said. “The poems are the firstway the Quagmires can speak to us from where they are hidden.”“I was wrong,” Klaus admitted. “I’ve never been so happy to be wrong in my life.Isadora meant ‘initials’ all along. I didn’t realize it until I read the part that said‘Inside these letters the eye will see.’ She’s hiding the location inside the poem, likeAunt Josephine hid her location inside her note, remember?”“Of course I remember,” Violet said, “but I still don’t understand.”“The first thing you read contains the clue,’” Klaus recited. “We thought thatIsadora meant the first poem. But she meant the first letter. She couldn’t tell usdirectly where she and her brother were hidden, in case someone else got the poemsfrom the crows before we did, so she had to use a sort of code. If we look at the firstletter of each line, and we can see the triplets’ location.”“‘For sapphires we are held in here.’ That’s F,” Violet said. ‘“Only you can end ourfear’ That’s O.”“‘Until dawn comes we cannot speak,’” Klaus said. “That’s U. ‘No words cancome from this sad beak.’ That’s N.”“‘The first thing you read contains the clue’ — T,” Violet said excitedly. “‘Aninitial way to speak to you’ — A.”“I! N!” Sunny cried triumphantly, and the three Baudelaires cried out the solutiontogether: “FOUNTAIN!”“Fowl Fountain!” Klaus said. “The Quagmires are right outside that window.”“But how can they be in the fountain?” Violet asked. “And how could Isadora giveher poems to the V.F.D. crows?”“We’ll answer those questions,” Klaus replied, “as soon as we get out of jail. We’dbetter get back to the mortar-dissolver before Detective Dupin comes back.”“Along with a whole town of people who want to burn us at the stake, thanks tomob psychology,” Violet said with a shudder.Sunny crawled over to the loaf of bread and placed her tiny hand against the wall.“Mush!” she cried, which meant something like, “The mortar is almost dissolved —just a little bit longer!”Violet took the ribbon out of her hair and then retied it, which was something shedid when she needed to rethink, a word which here means “Think even harder aboutthe Baudelaire orphans’ terrible situation.” “I’m not sure we have even a little bitlonger,” she said, looking up at the window. “Look at how bright the sunlight is. Themorning must be almost over.”“Then we should hurry,” Klaus said.“No,” Violet corrected. “We should rethink. And I’ve been rethinking this bench.We can use it in another way, besides as a ramp. We can use it as a battering ram.”“Honz?” Sunny asked.“A battering ram is a large piece of wood or metal used to break down doors orwalls ” Violet explained. “Military inventors used it in medieval times to break intowalled cities, and we’re going to use it now, to break out of jail.” Violet picked up thebench so it was resting on her shoulder. “The bench should be pointing as evenly aspossible,” she said. “Sunny, get on Klaus’s shoulders. If the two of you hold the otherend together, I think this battering ram will work.”Klaus and Sunny scrambled into the position Violet had suggested, and in amoment the siblings were ready to operate Violet’s latest invention. The twoBaudelaire sisters had a firm hold on the wood, and Klaus had a firm hold on Sunnyso she wouldn’t fall to the floor of the Deluxe Cell as they battered.“Now,” Violet said, “let’s step back as far as we can, and at the count of three, runquickly toward the wall. Aim the battering ram for the spot where the mortardissolver was working. Ready? One, two, three!”Thunk! The Baudelaires ran forward and smacked the bench against the wall ashard as they could. The battering ram made a noise so loud that it felt as if the entirejail would collapse, but they left only a small dent in a few of the bricks, as if the wallhad been bruised slightly. “Again!” Violet commanded. “One, two, three!”Thunk! Outside the children could hear a few crows flutter wildly, frightened bythe noise. A few more bricks were bruised, and one had a long crack down themiddle. “It’s working!” Klaus cried. “The battering ram is working!”“One, two, minga!” Sunny shrieked, and the children smacked the battering ramagainst the wall again.“Ow!” Klaus cried, and stumbled a little bit, almost dropping his baby sister. “Abrick fell on my toe!”“Hooray!” Violet cried. “I mean, sorry about your toe, Klaus, but if bricks arefalling it means the wall is definitely weakening. Let’s put down the battering ramand get a better look.”“We don’t need a better look,” Klaus said. “We’ll know it’s working when we seeFowl Fountain. One, two, three!”Thunk! The Baudelaires heard the sound of more pieces of brick hitting the filthyfloor of the Deluxe Cell. But they also heard another sound — a familiar one. Itbegan with a faint rustling, and then grew and grew until it sounded like a millionpages were being flipped. It was the sound of the V.F.D. crows, flying in circlesbefore departing for their afternoon roost, and it meant that the children were runningout of time.“Hurol!” Sunny cried desperately, and then, as loudly as she could, “One! Two!Minga !”At the count of “Minga!” which of course meant something along the lines of“Three!” the children raced toward the wall of the Deluxe Cell and smacked theirbattering ram against the bricks with the mightiest Thunk! yet, a noise that wasaccompanied by an enormous cracking sound as the invention snapped in two. Violetstaggered in one direction, and Klaus and Sunny staggered in another, as eachseparate half made them lose their balance, and a huge cloud of dust sprang from thepoint where the battering ram had hit the wall.A huge cloud of dust is not a beautiful thing to look at. Very few painters havedone portraits of huge clouds of dust or included them in their landscapes or stilllifes. Film directors rarely choose huge clouds of dust to play the lead roles inromantic comedies, and as far as my research has shown, a huge cloud of dust hasnever placed higher than twenty-fifth in a beauty pageant. Nevertheless, as theBaudelaire orphans stumbled around the cell, dropping each half of the battering ramand listening to the sound of the crows flying in circles outside, they stared at thehuge cloud of dust as if it were a thing of great beauty, because this particular hugedust cloud was made of pieces of brick and mortar and other building materials thatare needed to build a wall, and the Baudelaires knew that they were seeing it becauseViolet’s invention had worked. As the huge cloud of dust settled on the cell floor,making it even dirtier, the children gazed around them with big dusty grins on theirfaces, because they saw an additional beautiful sight — a big, gaping hole in the wallof the Deluxe Cell, perfect for a speedy escape.“We did it!” Violet said, and stepped through the hole in the cell into the courtyard.She looked up at the sky just in time to see the last few crows departing for thedowntown district. “We escaped!”Klaus, still holding Sunny on his shoulders, paused to wipe the dust off his glassesbefore stepping out of the cell and walking past Violet Fowl Fountain. “We’re not outof the woods yet,” he said, using a phrase which here means “There’s still plenty oftrouble on the horizon.” He looked up at the sky and pointed to the distant blur of thedeparting crows. “The crows are heading downtown for their afternoon roost. Thetownspeople should arrive any minute now.”“But how can we get the Quagmires out any minute now?” Violet asked.“Wock!” Sunny cried from Klaus’s shoulders. She meant something like, “Thefountain looks as solid as can be,” and her siblings nodded in disappointedagreement. Fowl Fountain looked as impenetrable — a word which here means“impossible to break into and rescue kidnapped triplets” — as it did ugly. The metalcrow sat and spat water all over itself as if the idea of the Baudelaires rescuing theQuagmires made it sick to its stomach.“Duncan and Isadora must be trapped inside the fountain,” Klaus said. “Perhapsthere’s a mechanism someplace that opens up a secret entrance.”“But we cleaned every inch of this fountain for our afternoon chores,” Violet said.“We would have noticed a secret mechanism while we were scrubbing all thosecarved feathers.”“Jidu!” Sunny said, which meant something like, “Surely Isadora has given us ahint about how to rescue her!”Klaus put down his baby sister, and took the four scraps of paper out of his pocket.“It’s time to rethink again,” he said, spreading out the couplets on the ground. “Weneed to examine these poems as closely as we can. There must be another clue aboutgetting into the fountain.”For sapphires we are held in here. Only you can end our fear.Until dawn comes we cannot speak. No words can come from this sad beak.The first thing you read contains the clue: An initial way to speak to you.Inside these letters the eye will see Nearby are your friends, and V.F.D.“‘This sad beak’!” Violet exclaimed. “We jumped to the conclusion that she meantthe V.F.D. crows, but maybe she means Fowl Fountain. The water comes out of thecrow’s beak, so there must be a hole there.”“We’d better climb up and see,” Klaus said. “Here, Sunny, get on my shouldersagain, and then I’ll get on Violet’s shoulders. We’re going to have to be very tall toreach all the way up there.”Violet nodded, and knelt at the base of the fountain. Klaus put Sunny back on hisshoulders, and then got on the shoulders of his older sister, and then carefully,carefully, Violet stood up, so all three Baudelaires were balancing on top of oneanother like a troupe of acrobats the children had seen once when their parents hadtaken them to the circus. The key difference, however, is that acrobats rehearse theirroutines over and over, in rooms with safety nets and plenty of cushions so that whenthey make a mistake they will not injure themselves, but the Baudelaire orphans hadno time to rehearse, or to find cushions to lay out on V.F.D.‘s streets. As a result, theBaudelaire balancing act was a wobbly one. Violet wobbled from holding up both hersiblings, and Klaus wobbled from standing on his wobbling sister, and poor Sunnywas wobbling so much that she was just barely able to sit up on Klaus’s shoulder andpeer into the beak of the gargling metal crow. Violet looked down the street, to watchfor any arriving townspeople, and Klaus gazed down at the ground, where Isadora’spoems were still spread out.“What do you see, Sunny?” asked Violet, who had spotted a few very distantfigures walking quickly toward the fountain.“Shize!” Sunny called down.“Klaus, the beak isn’t big enough to get inside the fountain,” Violet saiddesperately. The streets of the town appeared to be shaking up and down as shewobbled more and more.“What can we do?”“‘Inside these letters the eye will see,’” Klaus muttered to himself, as he often didwhen he was thinking hard about something he was reading. It took all of hisconcentration to read the couplets Isadora had sent them while he was teetering backand forth. “That’s a strange way to put it. Why didn’t she write ‘Inside these letters Ihope you’ll see,’ or ‘Inside these letters you just might see’?”“Sabisho!” Sunny cried. From the top of her two wobbling siblings, Sunny waswaving back and forth like a flower in the breeze. She tried to hang on to FowlFountain, but the water rushing out of the crow’s beak made the metal too slippery.Violet tried as hard as she could to steady herself, but the sight of two figureswearing crow-shaped hats coming around a nearby corner did not help her find herbalance“Klaus,” she said, “I don’t mean to rush you, but please rethink as quickly as youcan. The citizens are approaching, and I’m not sure how much longer I can hang on.”“‘Inside these letters the eye will see,’” Klaus muttered again, closing his eyes sohe wouldn’t have to see the world wobbling around him.“Took!” Sunny shrieked, but no one heard her over Violet’s scream as her legsgave out, a phrase which here means that she toppled to the ground, skinning herknee and dropping Klaus in the process. Klaus’s glasses dropped off, and he fell tothe ground of the courtyard elbows first, which is a painful way to fall, and as herolled on the ground both of his elbows received nasty scrapes. But Klaus was farmore concerned about his hands, which were no longer clasping the feet of his babysister. “Sunny!” he called, squinting without his glasses. “Sunny, where are you?”“Heni!” Sunny screamed, but it was even more difficult than usual to understandwhat she meant. The youngest Baudelaire had managed to cling to the beak of thecrow with her teeth, but as the fountain kept spitting out water, her mouth began toslip off the slick metal surface. “Heni!” she screamed again, as one of her upper teethstarted to slip. Sunny began to slide down, down, scrambling desperately to findsomething to hang on to, but the only other feature carved into the head was thestaring eye of the crow, which was flat and provided no sort of toothhold. She slippeddown farther, farther, and Sunny closed her eyes rather than watch herself fall.“Heni!” she screamed one last time, gnashing her teeth against the eye infrustration, and as she bit the eye, it depressed. “Depressed” is a word that oftendescribes someone who is feeling sad and gloomy, but in this case it describes asecret button, hidden in a crow statue, that is feeling just fine, thank you. With a greatcreaking noise, the button depressed and the beak of Fowl Fountain opened as wideas it could, each part of the beak flipping slowly down and bringing Sunny downwith it. Klaus found his glasses and put them on just in time to see his little sisterdrop safely into Violet’s outstretched arms The three Baudelaires looked at oneanother with relief, and then looked at the widening beak of the crow. Through therushing water, the three siblings could see two pairs of hands appear on the beak astwo people climbed out of Fowl Fountain. Each person was wearing a thick woolsweater, so dark and heavy with water that they both looked like huge, misshapenmonsters. The two dripping figures climbed carefully out of the crow and loweredthemselves to the ground, and the Baudelaires ran to clasp them in their arms.I do not have to tell you how overjoyed the children were to see Duncan andIsadora Quagmire shivering in the courtyard, and I do not have to tell you howgrateful the Quagmires were to be out of the confines of Fowl Fountain. I do not haveto tell you how happy and relieved the five youngsters were to be reunited after allthis time, and I do not have to tell you all the joyous things the triplets said as theystruggled to take off their heavy sweaters and wring them out. But there are things Ido have to tell you, and one of those things is the distant figure of Detective Dupin,holding a torch and heading straight toward the Baudelaire orphans.If you have reached this far in the story, you must stop now. If you take one stepback and look at the book you are reading, you can see how little of this miserablestory there is to go, but if you could know how much grief and woe are contained inthese last few pages, you would take another step back, and then another, and keepstepping back until The Vile Village was just as small and distant as the approachingfigure of Detective Dupin was as the Baudelaire orphans embraced their friends inrelief and joy. The Baudelaire orphans, I’m sorry to say, could not stop now, andthere is no way for me to travel backward in time and warn the Baudelaires that therelief and joy they were experiencing at Fowl Fountain were the last bits of relief andjoy they would experience for a very long time. But I can warn you. You, unlike theBaudelaire orphans and the Quagmire triplets and me and my dear departed Beatrice,can stop this wretched story at this very moment, and see what happens at the end ofThe Littlest Elf instead.“We can’t stay here,” Violet warned. “I don’t mean to cut short this reunion, butit’s already afternoon, and Detective Dupin is coming down that street.”The five children looked in the direction Violet was pointing, and could see theturquoise speck of Dupin’s approaching blazer, and the tiny point of light his flamingtorch made as he drew near the courtyard.“Do you think he sees us?” Klaus asked.“I don’t know,” Violet said, “but let’s not stick around to find out. The V.F.D. mobwill only get worse when they discover we’ve broken out of jail.”“Detective Dupin is the latest disguise of Count Olaf,” Klaus explained to theQuagmires, “and — ”“We know all about Detective Dupin,” Duncan said quickly, “and we know what’shappened to you.”“We heard everything that happened yesterday, from inside the fountain,” Isadorasaid. “When we heard you cleaning the fountain we tried to make as much noise aswe could, but you couldn’t hear us over the sound of all that water.”Duncan squeezed a whole puddle out of the soaked stitches of his left sweatersleeve. Then he reached under his shirt and brought out a dark green notebook. “Wetried to keep our notebooks as dry as possible,” he explained. “After all, there’scrucial information in here.”“We have all the information about V.F.D.,” Isadora said, taking out her notebook,which was pitch black. “The real V.F.D., that is not the Village of Fowl Devotees.”Duncan opened his notebook and blew on some of the damp pages. “And we knowthe complete story of poor Jac — ”Duncan was interrupted by a shriek behind him, and the five children turned to seetwo members of the Council of Elders staring at the hole in the uptown jail. Quickly,the Baudelaires and Quagmires ducked behind Fowl Fountain so they wouldn’t beseen.One of the Elders shrieked again, and removed his crow hat to dab at his browwith a tissue. “They’ve escaped!” he cried. “Rule #1,742 clearly states that no one isallowed to escape from jail. How dare they disobey this rule!”“We should have expected this from a murderer and her two accomplices,” theother Elder said. “And look — they’ve damaged Fowl Fountain. The beak is splitwide open. Our beautiful fountain is ruined!”“Those three orphans are the worst criminals in history,” the first replied. “Look— there’s Detective Dupin, walking down that street. Let’s go tell him what’shappened. Maybe he’ll figure out where they’ve gone.”“You go tell Dupin,” the second Elder said, “and I’ll go call The Daily Punctilio.Maybe they’ll put my name in the newspaper.”The two members of the Council hurried off to spread the news, and the childrensighed in relief. “Cose,” Sunny said.“That was too close,” Klaus replied. “Soon this whole district will be full ofcitizens hunting us down.”“Well, nobody’s hunting us” Duncan said. “Isadora and I will walk in front of you,so you won’t be spotted.”“But where can we go?” Isadora asked. “This vile village is in the middle ofnowhere.”“I helped Hector finish his self-sustaining hot air mobile home,” Violet said, “andhe promised to have it waiting for us. All we have to do is make it to the outskirts oftown, and we can escape.”“And live forever up in the air?” Klaus said frowning.“Maybe it won’t be forever,” Violet replied.“Scylla!” Sunny said, which meant “It’s either the self-sustaining hot air mobilehome or being burned at the stake!”“When you say it like that,” Klaus said, “I’m convinced.”Everyone agreed, and Violet looked around the courtyard to see if anyone else hadarrived yet. “In a place as flat as this one,” she said, “you can see people comingfrom far away, and we’re going to use that to our advantage. We’ll walk along anyempty street we can find, and if we see anyone coming, we’ll turn a corner. We won’tbe able to get there as the crow flies, but eventually we’ll be able to reach NevermoreTree.”“Speaking of the crows,” Klaus said to the two triplets, “how did you manage todeliver those poems by crow? And how did you know that we would receive them?”“Let’s get moving,” Isadora replied. “We’ll tell you the whole story as we goalong.”The five children got moving. With the Quagmire triplets in the lead, the group ofyoungsters peered down one street after another until they found one without a signof anyone coming, and hurried out of the courtyard.“Olaf smuggled us away in that item from the In Auction with the help of EsméSqualor,” Duncan began, referring to the last time the Baudelaires had seen him andhis sister. “And he hid us for a while in the tower room of his terrible house.”Violet shuddered. “I haven’t thought of that room in quite some time,” she said.“It’s hard to believe that we used to live with such a vile man.”Klaus pointed to the distant figure who was walking toward them, and the fivechildren turned onto another empty street. “This street doesn’t lead to Hector’shouse,” he said, we’ll try to double back. Go on, Duncan.”“Olaf learned that you three would be living with Hector at the outskirts of thistown ” Duncan continued, “and he had his associates build that hideous fountain.”“Then he placed us inside,” Isadora said “and had us installed in the uptowncourtyard so he could keep an eye on us while he tried to hunt you down. We knewthat you were our only chance of escaping.”The children reached a corner and stopped, while Duncan peeked around it tomake sure no one was approaching. He signaled that it was safe, and continued thestory. “We needed to send you a message, but we were afraid it would fall into thewrong hands. Isadora had the idea of writing in couplets, with our location hidden inthe first letter of each line.”“And Duncan figured out how to get them to Hector’s house,” Isadora said. “He’ddone some research about migration patterns in large black birds, so he knew that thecrows would roost every night in Nevermore Tree — right next to Hector’s house.Every morning, I would write a couplet, and the two of us would reach up throughthe fountain’s beak.”“There was always a crow roosting on the very top of the fountain,” Duncan said,“so we would wrap the scrap of paper around its leg. The paper was all wet from thefountain, so it would stick easily.”“And Duncan ‘s research was absolutely right. The paper dried off, and fell atnight.” Isadora recited.“That was a risky plan,” Violet said.“No riskier than breaking out of jail, and putting your lives in danger to rescue us,”Duncan said, and looked at the Baudelaires in gratitude. “You saved our lives —again.”“We wouldn’t leave you behind,” Klaus said. “We refused to entertain the notion.”Isadora smiled, and patted Klaus’s hand. “Meanwhile,” she said, “while we weretrying to contact you, Olaf hatched a plan to steal your fortune — and get rid of anold enemy at the same time.”“You mean Jacques,” Violet said. “When we saw him with the Council of Elders,he was trying to tell us something. Why does he have the same tattoo as Olaf? Who ishe?”“His full name,” Duncan said, flipping through his notebook, “is Jacques Snicket.”“That sounds familiar,” Violet said.“I’m not surprised,” Duncan said. “Jacques Snicket is the brother of a man who —”“There they are!” a voice cried, and in an instant the children realized they hadneglected to look in back of them, as well as in front of them and around each corner.About two blocks behind them was Mr. Lesko, leading a small group of torchcarrying citizens straight up the street. The day was getting later, and the torches leftlong, skinny shadows on the sidewalk as if the mob were being led by slitheringblack serpents, instead of a man in plaid pants. “There are the orphans!” Mr. Leskocried triumphantly. “After them, citizens!”“Who are those other two?” asked an Elder in the crowd.“Who cares?” said Mrs. Morrow, and waved her torch. “They’re probably moreaccomplices! Let’s burn them at the stake, too!”“Why not?” said another Elder. “We already have torches and kindling, and I don’thave anything else to do right now.”Mr. Lesko stopped at a corner and called down a street the children couldn’t see.“Hey, everyone!” he shouted. “They’re over here!”The five children had been staring at the group of citizens, too terrified to getmoving again. Sunny was the first to recover. “Lililk!” she shouted, and begancrawling down the street as fast as she could. She meant something like “Let’s go!Don’t look behind you! Let’s just try to get to Hector and his self-sustaining hot airmobile home before the mob catches up with us and burns us at the stake!” but hercompanions didn’t need any encouragement. Down the street they raced, paying noattention to the footsteps and shouts behind them, which seemed to be growing innumber as more and more people heard the news that V.F.D.‘s prisoners wereescaping. The children ran down narrow alleys and wide main streets, across parksand bridges that were all covered in black feathers. Occasionally they had to retracetheir steps, a phrase which here means “turn around and run the other way when theysaw townspeople approaching,” and often they had to duck into doorways or hidebehind shrubbery while angry citizens ran by, as if the children were playing a gameof hide-and-go-seek instead of running for their lives. The afternoon wore on, and theshadows on V.F.D.‘s streets grew longer and longer, and still the sidewalks echoedwith the sounds of the mob’s cries and the windows of the buildings reflected theflames from the torches the townspeople were carrying. Finally, the five childrenreached the outskirts of town, and stared at the flat, bare landscape. The Baudelairessearched desperately for a sign of the handyman and his invention, but only theshapes of Hector’s house, the barn, and Nevermore Tree were visible on the horizon.“Where’s Hector?” Isadora asked frantically.“I don’t know,” Violet said. “He said he’d be at the barn, but I don’t see him.”A Series of Unfortunate Events 7 - TheVile Village“Where can we go?” Duncan cried. “We can’t hide anywhere around here. Thecitizens will spot us in a second.”“We’re trapped,” Klaus said, his voice hoarse with panic.“Vireo!” Sunny cried, which meant “Let’s run — or, in my case, crawl — as fastas we can!”“We’ll never run fast enough,” Violet said, pointing behind them. “Look.”The youngsters turned around, and saw the entire Village of Fowl Devotees,marching together in a huge group. They had rounded the last corner and were nowheading straight toward the five children, their footsteps as loud as a roll of thunder.But the youngsters did not feel as if it was thunder that was rolling toward them. Ashundreds of fierce and angry citizens approached, it felt more like the rolling of anenormous root vegetable. It felt like a root vegetable that could crush all of thereptiles in Uncle Monty’s collection in five seconds flat, or one that could soak upevery drop of water of Lake Lachrymose in an instant. The approaching crowd feltlike a root vegetable that made every tree in the Finite Forest look like a tiny twig,made the huge lasagna served at the Prufrock Preparatory School cafeteria look like alight snack, and made the skyscraper at 667 Dark Avenue look like a dollhouse madefor midget children to play with, a root vegetable so tremendous in size that it wouldwin every first-place ribbon in every starchy farm crop competition in every state andcounty fair in the entire world from now until the end of time. The march of thetorch-wielding mob, eager to capture Violet and Klaus and Sunny and Duncan andIsadora and burn each one of them at the stake, felt like the largest potato theBaudelaire orphans and the Quagmire triplets had ever encountered.a scowling below the visor of her helmet as she led the way in her shiny black boots.In one white-gloved hand she was clutching something covered in a blanket, and with theother hand she was pointing at the terrified children.“There they are!” Officer Luciana cried, pointing her white-gloved finger at thefive terrified children. “They have nowhere else to go!”“She’s right!” Klaus cried. “There’s no way to escape!”“Machina!” Sunny shrieked.“There’s no sign of deus ex machina, Sunny,” Violet said, her eyes filling withtears. “I don’t think anything helpful will arrive unexpectedly.”“Machina!” Sunny insisted, and pointed at the sky. The children took their eyes offthe approaching mob and looked up, and there was the greatest example of deus exmachine they had ever seen. Floating just over the children’s heads was thesuperlative sight of the self- sustaining hot air mobile home. Although the inventionhad been quite marvelous to look at in Hector’s studio, it was truly wondrous nowthat it was actually being put to use, and even the angry citizens of V.F.D. stoppedchasing the children for a moment, just so they could stare at this amazing sight. Theself-sustaining hot air mobile home was enormous, as if an entire cottage hadsomehow detached itself from its neighborhood and was wandering around the sky.The twelve baskets were all connected and floating together like a group of rafts,with all of the tubes, pipes, and wires twisted around them like a huge piece ofknitting. Above the baskets were dozens of balloons in varying shades of green. Fullyinflated, they looked like a floating crop of crisp, ripe apples glistening in the lastlight of the afternoon. The mechanical devices were working at full force, withflashing lights, spinning gears, ringing bells, dripping faucets, whirring pulleys, and ahundred other gadgets all going at once, but miraculously, the entire self-sustaininghot air mobile home was as silent as a cloud. As the invention sailed toward theground, the only sound that could be heard was Hector’s triumphant shout.“Here I am!” the handyman called from the control basket. “And here it is, like abolt from the blue! Violet, your improvements are working perfectly. Climb aboard,and we’ll escape from this wretched place.” He flicked a bright yellow switch, and along ladder made of rope began to unfurl down to where the children were standing.“Because my invention is self-sustaining,” he explained, “it isn’t designed to comeback down to the ground, so you’ll have to climb up this ladder.”Duncan caught the end of the ladder and held it for Isadora to climb up. “I’mDuncan Quagmire,” he said quickly, “and this is my sister, Isadora.”“Yes, the Baudelaires have told me all about you,” Hector said. “I’m glad you’recoming along. Like all mechanical devices, the self-sustaining hot air mobile homeactually needs several people to keep it running.”“Aha!” cried Mr. Lesko, as Isadora hurriedly climbed the ladder with Duncan rightbehind her. The mob had stopped staring at the deus ex machina and was nowmarching once again toward the children. “I knew it was a mechanical device! Allthose buttons and gears can’t fool me!”“Why, Hector!” an Elder said. “Rule #67 clearly states that no citizen is allowed tobuild or use any mechanical devices.”“Burn him at the stake, too!” cried Mrs. Morrow. “Somebody get extra kindling!”Hector took a deep breath, and then called down to the mob without a trace ofskittishness in his voice. “Nobody’s going to be burned at the stake,” he said firmly,as Isadora reached the top of the ladder and joined Hector in the control basket.“Burning people at the stake is a repulsive thing to do!”“What’s repulsive is your behavior,” an Elder replied. “The children havemurdered Count Olaf, and you have built a mechanical device. You have both brokenvery important rules!”“I don’t want to live in a place with so many rules,” Hector replied in a quietvoice, “or a place with so many crows. I’m floating away from here, and I’m takingthese five children with me. The Baudelaires and the Quagmires have had a horribletime since their parents died. The Village of Fowl Devotees ought to be taking care ofthem, instead of accusing them of things and chasing them through the streets.”“But who’s going to do our chores?” an Elder asked. “The Snack Hut is still full ofdirty dishes from our hot fudge sundaes.”“You should do your own chores,” the handyman said, as he leaned over to liftDuncan aboard his invention, “or take turns doing them according to a fair schedule.The aphorism is ‘It takes a village to raise a child,’ not ‘Three children should cleanup after a village.’ Baudelaires, climb aboard. Let’s leave these terrible people behindus.”The Baudelaires smiled at one another, and began climbing up the rope ladder.Violet went first, her hands clutching the scratchy rope as tightly as she could, andKlaus and Sunny followed closely behind. Hector turned a knob, and the mobilehome rose up higher just as the crowd reached the end of the ladder. “They’re gettingaway!” another Elder called, her crow-shaped hat bobbing with frustration. Shejumped up to try to grab the edge of the ladder, but Hector had maneuvered hisinvention too high for her to reach. “The rulebreakers are getting away! OfficerLuciana, do something!”“I’ll do something, all right,” Officer Luciana said with a snarl, and tossed awaythe blanket she had been holding. From halfway down the ladder, the three climbingBaudelaires looked down and saw a large, wicked-looking object in Luciana’s hands,with a bright red trigger and four long, sharp hooks. “You’re not the only one with amechanical device!” she called up to Hector. “This is a harpoon gun that myboyfriend bought for me. It fires four hooked harpoons, which are long spears perfectfor popping balloons.”“Oh no!” Hector said, looking down at the climbing children.“Raise the self-sustaining hot air mobile home, Hector!” Violet called. “We’ll keepclimbing!”“Our Chief of Police is using a mechanical device?” Mrs. Morrow asked inastonishment. “That means she’s breaking Rule #67, too.”“Officers of the law are allowed to break rules,” Luciana said, aiming the harpoongun in Hector’s direction. “Besides, this is an emergency. We need to get thosemurderers down from there.” Members of the mob looked at one another inconfusion, but Luciana merely gave them a lipsticked smile, and pressed the harpoongun’s trigger with a sharp click! followed by a swoosh! as one of the hookedharpoons flew out of the gun straight toward Hector’s invention. The handymanmanaged to manuever the self-sustaining hot air mobile home so the harpoon did nothit a balloon, but it struck a metal tank on the side of one of the baskets, making alarge hole.“Drat!” Hector said, as a purplish liquid began to pour out of the hole. “That’s mysupply of cranberry juice! Baudelaires, hurry up! If she causes any serious damage,we’re all doomed!”“We’re coming as fast as we can!” Klaus cried, but as Hector moved his inventioneven higher in the air, the rope ladder was shaking so much that the Baudelairescould not move very fast at all.Click! Swoosh! Another harpoon flew through the air and landed in the sixthbasket, sending a cloud of brown dust fluttering to the ground, followed by some thinmetal tubes. “She hit our supply of whole wheat flour,” Hector cried, “and our box ofextra batteries!”“I’ll hit a balloon with this one!” Officer Luciana called. “Then you’ll fall to theground, where we can burn you at the stake!”“Officer Luciana,” said one of the Council of Elders in the crowd, “I don’t thinkyou should break the rules in order to capture people who have broken the rules. Itdoesn’t make sense.”“Hear, hear!” called out a townsperson from the opposite side of the crowd. “Whydon’t you put down the harpoon gun, and we’ll walk over to Town Hall and have acouncil meeting.”“It’s not cool,” called out a voice, “to have meetings!” There was a rumble, as ifanother large potato had arrived, and the crowd parted to reveal Detective Dupin,riding through the mob on a motorcycle painted turquoise to match his blazer. Belowhis sunglasses was a grin of triumph, and his bare chest swelled with pride.“Detective Dupin is using a mechanical device too?” an Elder asked. “We can’tburn everyone at the stake!”“Dupin isn’t a citizen,” another member of the Council pointed out, “so he’s notbreaking Rule #67.”“But he’s riding through a crowd of people,” Mr. Lesko said, “and he’s notwearing a helmet. He’s not showing good judgment, that’s for sure.”Detective Dupin ignored Mr. Lesko’s lecture about motorcycle safety and pulled toa stop beside Officer Luciana. “It’s cool to be late,” he said, and snapped his fingers.“I was buying today’s edition of The Daily Punctilio.”“You shouldn’t be buying newspapers,” said an Elder, shaking his crow hat indisapproval. “You should be catching criminals.”“Hear, hear!” said several voices in agreement, but the crowd was beginning tolook uncertain. It is hard work to be fierce all afternoon, and as the situation grewmore complicated, the citizens of V.F.D. seemed a bit less bloodthirsty. A fewtownspeople even lowered their torches, which had been heavy to hold up all thistime.But Detective Dupin ignored this change in V.F.D.‘s mob psychology. “Leave mealone, you crow-hatted fool,” he said to the Elder, and snapped his fingers. “It’s coolto fire away, Officer Luciana.”“It certainly is,” Luciana said, and looked up into the sky to aim the harpoon gunagain. But the self-sustaining hot air mobile home was no longer alone in the sky. Inall the commotion, no one had noticed that the afternoon was over, and the V.F.D.crows had left their downtown roost to fly in circles before migrating to NevermoreTree to spend the night as usual. Now the crows were arriving, thousands andthousands of them, and in seconds the evening sky was covered in black, mutteringbirds. Officer Luciana could not see Hector and his invention. Hector could not seethe Baudelaires. And the Baudelaires could not see anything. The rope ladder wasright in the path of the migrating crows, and the three children were absolutelysurrounded by the birds of V.F.D. The wings of the crows rustled against the children,and their feathers became tangled in the ladder, and all the three siblings could dowas hang on for dear life.“Baudelaires!” Hector called down. “Hang on for dear life! I’m going to fly evenhigher, over the crows!”“No!” Sunny cried, which meant something like, “I’m not sure that’s the wisestplan — we won’t survive a fall from such a height!” but Hector couldn’t hear herover another click! and swoosh! from Luciana’s harpoon gun. The Baudelaires feltthe rope ladder jerk sharply in their hands, and then twist dizzily in the crow-filledair. From up in the control basket, the Quagmire triplets looked down and caught aglimpse, through the migrating crows, of some very bad news.“The harpoon hit the ladder!” Isadora called down to her friends in despair. “Therope is coming unraveled!”It was true. As the crows began to settle in at Nevermore Tree, the Baudelairescould see more clearly, and they stared up at the ladder in horror. The harpoon wassticking out of one of the ladder’s thick ropes, which was slowly uncurling aroundthe hook. It reminded Violet of a time when she was much younger, and had beggedher mother to braid her hair so she could look like a famous inventor she had seen ina magazine. Despite her mother’s best efforts, the braids had not held their shape, andhad come unraveled almost as soon as she had tied their ends with ribbons. Violet’shair had slowly spun out of the braid, just as the strands of rope were spinning out ofthe ladder now.“Climb faster!” Duncan screamed down. “Climb faster!”“No,” Violet said quietly, and then said it again so her siblings could hear. Moreand more crows were taking their places in the tree, and Klaus and Sunny could seeViolet’s grim face as she looked down at them in despair. “No.” The eldestBaudelaire took another look at the unraveling rope and saw that they couldn’tpossibly climb up to the basket of Hector’s self-sustaining hot air mobile home. Itwas just as impossible as her mother ever braiding her hair again. “We can’t do it,”she said. “If we keep trying to climb up, we’ll fall to our deaths. We have to climbdown.”“But — ” Klaus said.“No,” Violet said, and one tear rolled down her cheek. “We won’t make it, Klaus.”“Yoil!” Sunny said.“No,” Violet said again, and looked her siblings in the eye. The three Baudelairesshared a moment of frustration and despair that they could not follow their friends,and then, without another word, they began climbing down the unraveling ladder,through the murder of crows still migrating to Nevermore Tree. When theBaudelaires climbed down nine rungs, the rope unbraided completely and droppedthe children onto the flat landscape, unhappy but unharmed.“Hector, maneuver your invention back down!” Isadora called. Her voice soundeda bit faint from so far away. “Duncan and I can lean out of the basket and make ahuman ladder! There’s still time to retrieve them!”“I can’t,” Hector said sadly, gazing down at the Baudelaires, who were standing upand untangling themselves from the fallen ladder, as Detective Dupin began to stridetoward them in his plastic shoes. “It’s not designed to return to the ground.”“There must be a way!” Duncan cried, but the self-sustaining hot air mobile homeonly floated farther away.“We could try to climb Nevermore Tree,” Klaus said, “and jump into the controlbasket from its highest branches.”Violet shook her head. “The tree is already half covered in crows,” she said, “andHector’s invention is flying too high.” She looked up in the sky and cupped her handsto her mouth so her voice could travel all the way up to her friends. “We can’t reachyou now!” she cried. “We’ll try to catch up with you later!”Isadora’s voice came back so faintly that the Baudelaires could scarcely hear itover the muttering of the crows, who were still settling themselves in NevermoreTree. “How can you catch up with us later,” she called, “in the middle of the air?”“I don’t know!” Violet admitted. “But we’ll find a way, I promise you!”“In the meantime,” Duncan called back, “take these!” The Baudelaires could seethe triplet holding his dark green notebook, and Isadora holding hers, over the side ofthe basket. “This is all the information we have about Count Olaf’s evil plan, and thesecret of V.F.D., and Jacques Snicket’s murder!” His voice was as trembly as it wasfaint, and the three siblings knew their friend was crying. “It’s the least we can do!”he called.“Take our notebooks, Baudelaires!” Isadora called, “and maybe someday we’llmeet again!”The Quagmire triplets dropped their notebooks out of the self-sustaining hot airmobile home, and called out “Good-bye!” to the Baudelaires, but their farewell wasdrowned out by the sound of another click! and another swoosh! as Officer Lucianafired one last harpoon. After so much practice, I’m sorry to say, her aim hadimproved, and the hook hit exactly what Luciana hoped it would. The sharp spearsailed through the air and hit not one but both Quagmire notebooks. There was a loudripping noise, and then the air was filled with sheets of paper, tossing this way andthat in the rustling wind made by the flying crows. The Quagmires yelled infrustration, and called one last thing down to their friends, but Hector’s invention hadflown too high for the Baudelaires to hear it all.“… volunteer …” the children heard dimly, and then the self-sustaining hot airballoon floated too high for the orphans to hear anything more.“Tesper!” Sunny cried, which meant “Let’s try to gather up as many pages of thenotebooks as we can!”“If ‘Tesper’ means ‘All is lost,’ then that baby isn’t so stupid after all,” saidDetective Dupin, who had reached the Baudelaires. He opened his blazer, exposingmore of his pale and hairy chest, and took a rolled-up newspaper out of an insidepocket, looking down at the children as if they were three bugs he was about tosquash. “I thought you’d want to see The Daily Punctilio” he said, and unrolled thenewspaper to show them the headline. “baudelaire orphans at large!” it read, using aphrase which here means “not in jail.” Below the headline were three drawings, oneof each sibling’s face.Detective Dupin removed his sunglasses so he could read the newspaper in thefading light. “Authorities are trying to capture Veronica, Klyde, and SusieBaudelaire,” he read out loud, “who escaped from the uptown jail of the Village ofFowl Devotees, where they were imprisoned for the murder of Count Omar.” Hegave the children a nasty smile and threw The Daily Punctilio down on the ground.“Some names are wrong, of course,” he said, “but everybody makes mistakes.Tomorrow, of course, there will be another special edition, and I’ll make sure thatThe Daily Punctilio gets every detail correct in the story about Detective Dupin’ssupercool capture of the notorious Baudelaires.”Dupin leaned down to the children, so close that they could smell the egg saladsandwich he’d apparently eaten for lunch. “Of course,” he said, in a quiet voice soonly the siblings could hear him, “one Baudelaire will escape at the last minute, andlive with me until the fortune is mine. The question is, which Baudelaire will that be?You still haven’t let me know your decision.”“We’re not going to entertain that notion, Olaf,” Violet said bitterly.“Oh no!” an Elder cried, and pointed out at the flat horizon. By the light of thesunset, the Baudelaires could see a small, slender shape sticking out of the ground,while the Quagmire pages fluttered by. It was the last harpoon Luciana had fired, andit had hit something else after destroying the Quagmire notebooks. There, pinned tothe ground, was one of the V.F.D. crows, opening its mouth in pain.“You harmed a crow!” Mrs. Morrow said in horror, pointing at Officer Luciana.“That’s Rule #1! That’s the most important rule of all!”“Oh, it’s just a stupid bird,” Detective Dupin said, turning to face the horrifiedcitizens.“A stupid bird?” an Elder repeated, his crow hat trembling in anger. “A stupidbird?’ Detective Dupin, this is the Village of Fowl Devotees, and — ”“Wait a minute!” interrupted a voice from the crowd. “Look, everyone! He hasonly one eyebrow!”Detective Dupin, who had removed his sunglasses to read the paper, reached intothe pocket of his blazer and put them back on again. “Lots of people have oneeyebrow,” he said, but the crowd paid no attention as mob psychology began to takehold again.“Let’s make him take off his shoes,” Mr. Lesko called, and an Elder knelt down tograb one of Dupin’s feet. “If he has a tattoo, let’s burn him at the stake!”“Hear, hear!” a group of citizens agreed.“Now, wait just a minute!” Officer Luciana said, putting down the harpoon gunand looking at Dupin in concern.“And let’s burn Officer Luciana, too!” Mrs. Morrow said. “She wounded a crow!”“We don’t want all these torches to go to waste!” cried an Elder.“Hear, hear!”Detective Dupin opened his mouth to speak, and the children could see he wasthinking frantically of something to say that would fool V.F.D.‘s citizens. But then hesimply closed his mouth, and with a flick of his foot, kicked the Elder who washolding on to his shoe. As the mob gasped, the Elder’s crow-shaped hat fell off as sherolled to the ground, still clutching Dupin’s plastic shoe.“It’s the tattoo!” one of the Verhoogens cried, pointing at the eye on DetectiveDupin’s — or, more properly, Count Olaf’s — left ankle. With a roar, Olaf ran backto his motorcycle and, with another roar, he started the engine. “Hop aboard, Esmé!”he called out to Officer Luciana. The Chief removed her motorcycle helmet with asmile, and the Baudelaires saw that it was indeed Esmé Squalor.“It’s Esmé Squalor!” an Elder cried. “She used to be the city’s sixth mostsuccessful financial advisor, but now she works with Count Olaf!”“I heard the two of them are dating!” Mrs. Morrow said in horror.“We are dating!” Esmé cried in triumph. She climbed aboard Olaf’s motorcycleand tossed her helmet to the ground, showing that she cared no more aboutmotorcycle safety than she did about the welfare of crows.“So long, Baudelaires!” Count Olaf called, zooming through the angry crowd. “I’llfind you again, if the authorities don’t find you first!”Esmé cackled as the motorcycle roared off across the flat landscape at more thantwice the legal speed limit, so within moments the motorcycle was as tiny a speck onthe horizon as the self-sustaining hot air mobile home was in the sky. The mob staredafter the two villains in disappointment.“We’ll never catch up to them,” an Elder said with a frown. “Not without anymechanical devices.”“Never mind about that,” another Elder replied. “We have more important thingsto attend to. Hurry, everyone! Rush this crow to the V.F.D. vet!”The Baudelaires looked at one another in astonishment as the citizens of V.F.D.carefully unpinned the crow and began to carry it back into town. “What should wedo?” Violet asked. She was talking to her siblings, but a member of the Council ofElders overheard and turned back to answer her. “Stay right here,” he said. “CountOlaf and that dishonest girlfriend of his may have escaped, but you three are stillcriminals. We’ll burn you at the stake as soon as this crow has received propermedical attention.”The Elder ran after the crow-carrying mob, and in a few seconds the children werealone on the flat landscape with only the shuffling papers of the Quagmire notebooksfor company. “Let’s gather these up,” Klaus said, stooping down to pick up one badlyripped page. “They’re our only hope of discovering the secret of V.F.D.” “And ofdefeating Count Olaf,” Violet agreed, walking over to where a small stack of pageshad blown together.“Phelon!” Sunny said, scrambling after one that seemed to have a map scrawled onit. She meant “And of proving that we’re not murderers!” and the children paused tolook at The Daily Punctilio, which still lay on the ground. Their own faces staredback at them, below the headline “baudelaire orphans at large!” but the children didnot feel at large. The Baudelaires felt as small as could be, standing alone on the bareoutskirts of V.F.D., chasing down the few pages of the Quagmire notebooks that werenot gone forever. Violet managed to grab six pages, and Klaus managed to grabseven, and Sunny managed to grab nine, but many of the recovered pages wereripped, or blank, or all crumpled from the wind.“We’ll study them later,” Violet said, gathering the pages together and tying themin a bundle with her hair ribbon. “In the meantime, we have to get out of here beforethe mob returns.”“But where will we go?” Klaus asked.“Burb,” Sunny said, which meant “Anywhere, as long as it’s out of town.”“Who will take care of us out there?” Klaus said, looking out on the flat horizon.“Nobody,” Violet said. “We’ll have to take care of ourselves. We’ll have to beselfsustaining.”“Like the hot air mobile home,” Klaus said, “that could travel and survive all byitself.”“Like me,” Sunny said, and abruptly stood up. Violet and Klaus gasped in surpriseas their baby sister took her first wobbly steps, and then walked closely beside her,ready to catch her if she fell.But she didn’t fall. Sunny took a few more self-sustaining steps, and then the threeBaudelaires stood together, casting long shadows across the horizon in the dying lightof the sunset. They looked up to see a tiny dot in the sky, far far away, where theQuagmire triplets would live in safety with Hector. They looked out at the landscape,where Count Olaf had ridden off with Esmé Squalor, to find his associates and cookup another scheme. They looked back at Nevermore Tree, where the V.F.D. crowswere muttering together for their evening roost, and then they looked out at theworld, where families everywhere would soon be reading all about the three siblingsin the special edition of The Daily Punctilio. It seemed to the Baudelaires that everycreature in the world was being taken care of by others — every creature except forthemselves. But the children, of course, could care for one another, as they had beencaring for one another since that terrible day at the beach. Violet, Klaus, and Sunnylooked at one another and took a deep breath, gathering up all their courage to faceall the bolts from the blue that they guessed — and, I’m sorry to say, guessedcorrectly — lay ahead of them, and then the self-sustaining Baudelaire orphans tooktheir first steps away from town and toward the last few rays of the setting sun.TO MY KIND EDITOR,PLEASE EXCUSE THE WORD STOP AT THE END OF EVERY SENTENCESTOP. TELEGRAMS ARE THE QUICKEST WAY TO DELIVER A MESSAGE FROMLAST CHANCE GENERAL STORE, AND IN A TELEGRAM, STOP IS THE WAY TOSIGNAL WHEN A SENTENCE STOPS STOP.THE NEXT TIME YOU ARE INVITED TO A PARTY, WEAR YOUR THIRDNICEST SUIT AND PRETEND TO NOTICE A SPOT STOP THE NEXT DAY, TAKETHE SUIT TO THE DRY CLEANERS FOR CLEANING STOP. WHEN YOU COMETO PICK IT UP, YOU WILL RECEIVE INSTEAD A SHOPPING BAG CONTAININGMY ENTIRE ACCOUNT OF THE BAUDELAIRE CHILDREN’S EXPERIENCES INTHIS AREA ENTITLED “THE HOSTILE HOSPITAL” ALONG WITH ANINTERCOM SPEAKER, ONE OF THE LAMPS MISTAKENLY DELIVERED TO HAL,AND A HEART-SHAPED BALLOON THAT HAS POPPED STOP. I WILL ALSOINCLUDE A SKETCH OF THE KEY TO THE LIBRARY OF RECORDS, SO THATMR. HELQUIST CAN ILLUSTRATE IT PROPERLY STOP REMEMBER, YOU ABEMY LAST HOPE THAT THE TALES OF THE BAUDELAIRE ORPHANS CANFINALLY BE TOLD TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC STOP.WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, LEMONY SNICKET PS YOUR SUIT WILL BEMAILED TO YOU LATER STOP.A Series of Unfortunate Events 8 - TheHostile HospitalASeriesofUnfortunateEventsA Series of Unfortunate EventsBook the EighthThe Hostile HospitalLemony SnicketC H A P T E ROneThere are two reasons why a writer would end a sentence with the word “stop”written entirely in capital letters STOP. The first is if the writer were writing atelegram, which is a coded message sent through an electrical wire STOP. In atelegram, the word “stop” in all capital letters is the code for the end of a sentenceSTOP. But there is another reason why a writer would end a sentence with “stop”written entirely in capital letters, and that is to warn readers that the book they arereading is so utterly wretched that if they have begun reading it, the best thing to dowould be to stop STOP. This particular book, for instance, describes an especiallyunhappy time in the dreadful lives of Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire, and if youhave any sense at all you will shut this book immediately, drag it up a tall mountain,and throw it off the very top STOP. There is no earthly reason why you should readeven one more word about the misfortune, treachery, and woe that are in store for thethree Baudelaire children, any more than you should run into the street and throwyourself under the wheels of a bus STOP. This “stop”-ended sentence is your verylast chance to pretend the “STOP” warning is a stop sign, and to stop the flood ofdespair that awaits you in this book, the heart-stopping horror that begins in the verynext sentence, by obeying the “STOP” and stopping STOP.The Baudelaire orphans stopped. It was early in the morning, and the threechildren had been walking for hours across the flat and unfamiliar landscape. Theywere thirsty, lost, and exhausted, which are three good reasons to end a long walk,but they were also frightened, desperate, and not far from people who wanted to hurtthem, which are three good reasons to continue. The siblings had abandoned allconversation hours ago, saving every last bit of their energy to put one foot in front ofthe other, but now they knew they had to stop, if only for a moment, and talk aboutwhat to do next.The children were standing in front of the Last Chance General Store-the onlybuilding they had encountered since they began their long and frantic nighttime walk.The outside of the store was covered with faded posters advertising what was sold,and by the eerie light of the half-moon, the Baudelaires could see that fresh limes,plastic knives, canned meat, white envelopes, mango-flavored candy, red wine,leather wallets, fashion magazines, goldfish bowls, sleeping bags, roasted figs,cardboard boxes, controversial vitamins, and many other things were available insidethe store. Nowhere on the building, however, was there a poster advertising help,which is really what the Baudelaires needed.“I think we should go inside,” said Violet, taking a ribbon out of her pocket to tieup her hair. Violet, the eldest Baudelaire, was probably the finest fourteen-year-oldinventor in the world, and she always tied her hair up in a ribbon when she had tosolve a problem, and right now she was trying to invent a solution for the biggestproblem she and her siblings had ever faced. “Perhaps there’s somebody in there whocan help us in some way.”“But perhaps there’s somebody in there who has seen our pictures in thenewspaper,” said Klaus, the middle Baudelaire, who had recently spent his thirteenthbirthday in a filthy jail cell. Klaus had a real knack for remembering nearly everyword of nearly all of the thousands of books he had read, and he frowned as heremembered something untrue he had recently read about himself in the newspaper.“If they read The Daily Punctilio,”he continued, “perhaps they believe all thoseterrible things about us. Then they won’t help us at all.”“Agery!” Sunny said. Sunny was a baby, and as with most babies, different partsof her were growing at different rates. She had only four teeth, for example, but eachof them was as sharp as that of an adult lion, and although she had recently learned towalk, Sunny was still getting the hang of speaking in a way that all adults couldunderstand. Her siblings, however, knew at once that she meant “Well, we can’t keepon walking forever,” and the two older Baudelaires nodded in agreement.“Sunny’s right,” Violet said. “It’s called the Last Chance General Store. Thatsounds like it’s the only building for miles and miles. It might be our onlyopportunity to get some help.”“And look,” Klaus said, pointing to a poster taped in a high corner of the building.“We can send a telegram inside. Maybe we can get some help that way.”“Who would we send a telegram to?” Violet asked, and once again the Baudelaireshad to stop and think. If you are like most people, you have an assortment of friendsand family you can call upon in times of trouble. For instance, if you woke up in themiddle of the night and saw a masked woman trying to crawl through your bedroomwindow, you might call your mother or father to help you push her back out. If youfound yourself hopelessly lost in the middle of a strange city, you might ask thepolice to give you a ride home. And if you were an author locked in an Italianrestaurant that was slowly filling up with water, you might call upon youracquaintances in the locksmith, pasta, and sponge businesses to come and rescue you.But the Baudelaire children’s trouble had begun with the news that their parents hadbeen killed in a terrible fire, so they could not call upon their mother or father. Thesiblings could not call upon the police for assistance, because the police were amongthe people who had been chasing them all night long. And they could not call upontheir acquaintances, because so many of the children’s acquaintances were unable tohelp them. After the death of the Baudelaire parents, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny hadfound themselves under the care of a variety of guardians. Some of them had beencruel. Some of them had been murdered. And one of them had been Count Olaf, agreedy and treacherous villain who was the real reason they were all by themselves inthe middle of the night, standing in front of the Last Chance General Store,wondering who in the world they could call upon for help.“Poe,” Sunny said finally. She was talking about Mr. Poe, a banker with a nastycough, who was in charge of taking care of the children following their parents’death. Mr. Poe had never been particularly helpful, but he was not cruel, murdered, orCount Olaf, and those seemed to be reasons enough to contact him.“I guess we could try Mr. Poe,” Klaus agreed. “The worst he could do would be tosay no.”“Or cough,” Violet said with a small smile. Her siblings smiled back, and the threechildren pushed open the rusty door and walked inside.“Lou, is that you?” called out a voice, but the children could not see who itbelonged to. The inside of the Last Chance General Store was as crowded as itsoutside, with every inch of space crammed full of things for sale. There were shelvesof canned asparagus and racks of fountain pens, next to barrels of onions and cratesfull of peacock feathers. There were cooking utensils nailed to the walls andchandeliers hanging from the ceiling, and the floor was made out of thousands ofdifferent kinds of tiles, each one stamped with a price tag. “Are you delivering themorning paper?” the voice asked.“No,” Violet replied, as the Baudelaires tried to make their way toward the personwho was talking. With difficulty they stepped over a carton of cat food and rounded acorner, only to find rows and rows of fishnets blocking their way.“I’m not surprised, Lou,” the voice continued, as the siblings doubled back past astack of mirrors and a pile of socks and headed down an aisle filled with pots of ivyand books of matches. “I usually don’t expect The Daily Punctilio until after theVolunteers Fighting Disease arrive.”The children stopped looking for the source of the voice for a moment, and lookedat one another, thinking of their friends Duncan and Isadora Quagmire. Duncan andIsadora were two triplets who, like the Baudelaires, had lost their parents, along withtheir brother, Quigley, in a terrible fire. The Quagmires had fallen into Olaf’s hands acouple of times and had only recently escaped, but the Baudelaires did not know ifthey would see their friends ever again or learn a secret that the triplets haddiscovered and written down in their notebooks. The secret concerned the initialsV.F.D., but the only other clues that the Baudelaires had were a few pages fromDuncan’s and Isadora’s notebooks, and the three siblings had scarcely found the timeto look them over. Could Volunteers Fighting Disease finally be the answer thechildren were searching for?“No, we’re not Lou,” Violet called out. “We’re three children, and we need to senda telegram.”“A telegram?” called the voice, and as the children rounded another corner theyalmost ran right into the man who was talking to them. He was very short, shorterthan both Violet and Klaus, and looked like he hadn’t slept or shaved in quite a longtime. He was wearing two different shoes, each with a price tag, and several shirtsand hats at once. He was so covered in merchandise that he almost looked like part ofthe store, except for his friendly smile and dirty fingernails.“You’re certainly not Lou,” he said. “Lou is one chubby man, and you are threeskinny children. What are you doing around here so early? It’s dangerous aroundhere, you know. I’ve heard that this morning’s Daily Punctiliohas a story about threemurderers who are lurking around this very neighborhood, but I haven’t read it yet.”“Newspaper stories aren’t always accurate,” Klaus said nervously.The shopkeeper frowned. “Nonsense,” he said. “The Daily Punctilio wouldn’tprint things that aren’t true. If the newspaper says somebody is a murderer, then theyare a murderer and that’s the end of it. Now, you say you wanted to send a telegram?”“Yes,” Violet said. “To Mr. Poe at Mulctuary Money Management, in the city.”“It will cost quite a bit of money to send a telegram all the way to the city,” theshopkeeper said, and the Baudelaires looked at one another in dismay.“We don’t have any money with us,” Klaus admitted. “We’re three orphans, andthe only money we have is being looked after by Mr. Poe. Please, sir.”“Sos!” Sunny said.“My sister means ‘It’s an emergency situation,’” Violet explained, “and it is.”The shopkeeper looked at them for a moment, and then shrugged. “If it’s really anemergency situation,” he said, “then I won’t charge you. I never charge anything forthings if they’re really important. Volunteers Fighting Disease, for instance.Whenever they stop by, I give them gasoline for free because they do such wonderfulwork.”“What exactly do they do?” Violet asked.“They fight disease, of course,” the shopkeeper replied. “V.F.D. stop by hereearly each morning on their way to the hospital. Every day they devote themselves tocheering up patients, and I don’t have the heart to charge them for anything.”“You’re a very kind man,” Klaus replied.“Well, it’s very kind of you to say so,” the shopkeeper replied. “Now, the devicefor sending telegrams is over there, next to all those porcelain kittens. I’ll help you.”“We can do it ourselves,” Violet said. “I built one of those devices myself when Iwas seven, so I know how to connect the electronic circuit.”“And I’ve read two books about Morse code,” Klaus said. “So I can translate ourmessage into electronic signals.”“Help!” Sunny said.“What a talented group of children,” the shopkeeper said with a smile. “Well, I’llleave you three alone. I hope that this Mr. Poe person can help you with youremergency situation.”“Thank you very much, sir,” Violet said. “I hope so, too.”The shopkeeper gave the children a little wave and disappeared behind a display ofpotato peelers, and the Baudelaires looked at one another in excitement.“Volunteers Fighting Disease?” Klaus whispered to Violet. “Do you think we’vefinally found the real meaning of V.F.D.?”“Jacques!” Sunny said.Jacques did say something about working as a volunteer,“ Klaus agreed. ”If onlywe had a few moments to look over the pages from the Quagmire notebooks. They’restill in my pocket.”“First things first,” Violet said. “Let’s send the telegram to Mr. Poe. If Lou deliversthis morning’s Daily Punctilio, the shopkeeper is going to stop thinking we’re agroup of talented children and start thinking we’re murderers.”“You’re right,” Klaus said. “After Mr. Poe gets us out of this mess, we’ll have timeto think about these other things.”“Trosslik,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of, “You mean if Mr.Poe gets us out of this mess,” and her siblings nodded grimly and went over to take alook at the telegram device. It was an arrangement of dials, wires, and strange metalimplements that I would have been too scared to even touch, but the Baudelairesapproached it with confidence.“I’m pretty sure we can operate this,” Violet said. “It looks fairly simple. See,Klaus, you use these two metal strips to tap out the message in Morse code, and I willconnect the circuit over here. Sunny, you stand here and put on these earphones tomake sure you can hear the signal being transmitted. Let’s step to it.”The children stepped to it, a phrase which here means “took their positions aroundthe telegram device.” Violet turned a dial, Sunny put on her earphones, and Klauswiped the lenses of his glasses so he could be sure to see what he was doing. Thesiblings nodded at one another, and Klaus began to speak out loud as he tapped outthe message in code.“To: Mr. Poe at Mulctuary Money Management,” Klaus said. “From: Violet,Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire. Please do not believe the story about us printed in TheDaily Punctilio STOP. Count Olaf is not really dead, and we did not really murderhim STOP.”“Arrete?” Sunny asked.“‘STOP’ is the code for the end of a sentence,” Klaus explained. “Now, whatshould I say next?”Soon after our arrival in the town of V.F.D. we were informed that Count Olaf hadbeen captured STOP,“ Violet dictated. ”Although the arrested man had an eyetattooed on his ankle and one eyebrow instead of two, he was not Count Olaf STOP.His name was Jacques Snicket STOP.”“The next day he was found murdered, and Count Olaf arrived in town along withhis girlfriend, Esmé Squalor STOP,” Klaus continued, tapping away. “As part of hisplan to steal the fortune our parents left behind, Count Olaf disguised himself as adetective and convinced the town of V.F.D. that we were the murderers STOP.”“Uckner,” Sunny suggested, and Klaus translated what she said into English, andthen into Morse code: “Meanwhile we discovered where the Quagmire triplets werebeing hidden, and helped them escape STOP. The Quagmires managed to give us afew scraps of their notebooks so we could try to learn the real meaning of V.F.D.STOP.”“We have managed to flee from the citizens of the town, who want to burn us atthe stake for a murder that we did not commit STOP,” Violet said, and Klaus quicklytapped the sentence out into code before adding two last sentences of his own.“Please reply at once STOP. We are in grave danger STOP.”Klaus tapped out the last P in “STOP” and then looked at his sisters. “We are ingrave danger,” he said again, although his hand did not move on the device.“You already sent that sentence,” Violet said.“I know,” Klaus said quietly. “I wasn’t putting it into the telegram again. I was justsaying it. We are in grave danger. It’s almost as if I didn’t realize how grave thedanger was until I tapped it out into a telegram.”‘Ilimi,” Sunny said, and took off her earphones so she could lay her head onKlaus’s shoulder.“I’m scared, too,“ Violet admitted, patting her sister’s shoulder. ”But I’m sure Mr.Poe will help us. We can’t be expected to solve this problem all by ourselves.”“But that’s how we’ve solved every other problem,” Klaus said, “ever since thefire. Mr. Poe has never done anything except send us to one disastrous home afteranother.”“He’ll help us this time,” Violet insisted, although she did not sound very sure.“Just watch the device. He’ll send back a telegram any moment now.”“But what if he doesn’t?” Klaus asked.“Chonex,” Sunny murmured, and wriggled closer to her siblings. She meantsomething along the lines of “Then we’re all alone,” which is a curious thing to saywhen you are with your two siblings, in the middle of a store so stuffed withmerchandise you can hardly move. But as they sat closely together, looking at thetelegram device, it did not seem curious to the Baudelaires. They were surrounded bynylon rope, floor wax, soup bowls, window curtains, wooden rocking horses, tophats, fiber-optic cable, pink lipstick, dried apricots, magnifying glasses, blackumbrellas, slender paintbrushes, French horns, and each other, but as the Baudelaireorphans sat and waited for a reply to their telegram, they only felt more and morealone.fierce weasels, or perhaps they are wedged tightly between two refrigerators andcannot get themselves out. The expression might well be changed to “No news is badnews,” except that people may not be able to contact you because they have just beencrowned king or are competing in a gymnastics tournament. The point is that there is noway to know why someone has not contacted you, until they contact you and explainthemselves. For this reason, the sensible expression would be “No news is no news,”except that it is so obvious it is hardly an expression at all.Obvious or not, however, it is the proper way to describe what happened to theBaudelaires after they sent the desperate telegram to Mr. Poe. Violet, Klaus, andSunny sat and stared at the telegram device for hours, waiting for some sign of thebanker’s reply. As the hour grew later and later, they took turns dozing against themerchandise of the Last Chance General Store, hoping for any response from theman who was in charge of the orphans’ affairs. And as the first few rays of dawnshone through the window, illuminating all of the price tags in the store, the onlynews the children had received was that the shopkeeper had made some freshcranberry muffins.“I’ve made some fresh cranberry muffins,” the shopkeeper said, peeking around atower of flour sifters. He was wearing at least two pot holders on each hand and wascarrying the muffins on a stack of different-colored trays. “Normally I would putthem up for sale, between the phonograph records and the garden rakes, but I hate tothink of you three children going without breakfast when there are vicious murdererson the loose, so have some for yourself, free of charge.”“That’s very kind of you,” Violet said, as she and her siblings each took a muffinfrom the shopkeeper’s top tray. The Baudelaires, who had not eaten since they left thevillage, soon made short work-a phrase which here means “ate every warm, sweetcrumb”-of the pastries.“Goodness, you’re hungry,” the shopkeeper said. “Did everything go all right withthe telegram? Have you received a reply?”“Not yet,” Klaus said.“Well, don’t worry your tiny heads about it,” the shopkeeper replied. “Remember,no news is good news.”“No news is good news?” called out a voice from somewhere in the store. “I havesome news for you, Milt. All about those murderers.”“Lou!” the shopkeeper called in delight, and then turned to the children. “Excuseme, please,” he said. “Lou’s here with The Daily Punctilio.”The shopkeeper walked through a bunch of rugs hanging from the ceiling, and theBaudelaires looked at one another in dismay.“What’ll we do?” Klaus whispered to his sisters. “If the newspaper has arrived, theshopkeeper will read that we’re murderers. We’d better run away.”“But if we run away,” Violet said, “Mr. Poe won’t be able to contact us.”“Gykree!” Sunny cried, which meant “He’s had all night to contact us, and wehaven’t heard from him.”“Lou?” they heard the shopkeeper call out. “Where are you, Lou?”“I’m over by the pepper grinders,” the delivery person called out in return. “Andwait till you read this story about the three murderers of that Count. It’s got picturesand everything. I saw the police on the way here, and they said they were closing in.The only people they allowed in the area were me and those volunteer people.They’re going to capture those kids and send them right to jail.”“Kids?“ the shopkeeper said. ”The murderers are kids?”“Yep,“ the delivery person replied. ”See for yourself.”The children looked at one another, and Sunny gave a little whimper of fear.Across the store they could hear the rustling of paper and then the excited voice ofthe shopkeeper.“I know those kids!” he cried. “They’re in my store right now! I just gave themsome muffins!”“You gave muffins to murderers?” Lou said. “That’s not right, Milt. Criminalsshould be punished, not fed pastries.”“I didn’t know they were murderers then,” the shopkeeper explained, “but I sureknow now. It says so right here in The Daily Punctilio. Call the police, Lou! I’ll grabthese murderers and make sure they don’t escape.”The Baudelaires wasted no more time, and began to run in the opposite directionfrom the men’s voices, down an aisle of safety pins and candy canes. “Let’s headtoward those ceramic ashtrays,” Violet whispered. “I think we can exit that way.”“But what happens when we exit?” Klaus whispered back. “The delivery personsaid that the police were closing in.”“Mulick!” Sunny cried, which meant “Let’s discuss that at a later time!”“Egad!” The children could hear the shopkeeper’s surprised voice from severalaisles over. “Lou, the kids aren’t here! Keep an eye out for them.”“What do they look like?” the delivery-person called back.“They look like three innocent children,” the shopkeeper said, “but they’re reallyvicious criminals. Be careful.”The children ran around a corner and ducked into the next aisle, pressingthemselves against a rack of construction paper and canned peas as they listened tothe hurrying footsteps of the delivery person. “Wherever you murderers are,” hecalled, “you’d better give up!”“We’re not murderers!” Violet cried in frustration.‘Of course you’re murderers!“ the shop- keeper answered. ”It says so in thenewspaper!”“Plus,” the delivery person said in a sneering voice, “if you’re not murderers, whyare you hiding and running?”Violet started to answer, but Klaus covered her mouth before she could sayanything more. “They’ll be able to tell where we are by our voices,” he whispered.“Just let them talk, and maybe we can escape.”“Lou, do you see them?” called the shopkeeper.“No, but they can’t hide forever,” the delivery person said. “I’m going to look overby the undershirts!”The Baudelaires looked ahead of them and saw a pile of white undershirts thathappened to be on sale. Gasping, the children doubled back, and ran down an aislecovered in ticking clocks.“I’m going to try the clock aisle!” the shopkeeper cried. “They can’t hide forever!”The children hurried down the aisle, sprinted past a rack of towel racks and piggybanks, and scurried around a display of sensible plaid skirts.Finally, over the top shelf of an aisle containing nothing but different kinds ofbedroom slippers, Violet spotted a glimpse of the exit, and silently pointed the way toher siblings.“I bet they’re in the sausage aisle!” the shopkeeper said.“I bet they’re near the bathtub display!” the delivery person called.“They can’t hide forever!” the shopkeeper cried.The Baudelaires took a deep breath, and then bolted toward the exit of the LastChance General Store, but as soon as they got outside they realized the shopkeeperwas right. The sun was rising, revealing the flat and desolate landscape the childrenhad walked across all night. In a few hours the entire countryside would be coveredin sunlight, and the land was so flat that the children would be seen from far, faraway. They couldn’t hide forever, and as Violet, Klaus, and Sunny stood outside theLast Chance General Store, it seemed that they couldn’t hide for even one moreinstant. “Look!” Klaus said, and pointed in the direction of the rising sun. Parked aways from the store was a square, gray van with the letters V.F.D. printed on its side.“That must be the Volunteers Fighting Disease,” Violet said. “The delivery personsaid only he and the volunteers were allowed in the area.”“Then they’re the only way we can hide,” Klaus said. “If we can sneak aboard thatvan, we can escape from the police, at least for now.”“But this might be the right V.F.D.,” Violet said. “If these volunteers are part of thesinister secret the Quagmire triplets tried to tell us about, we might be going from abad situation to a worse one.”“Or,” Klaus said, “it might get us closer to solving the mystery of Jacques Snicket.Remember, he said he worked as a volunteer, right before he was murdered.”“It won’t do us any good to solve the mystery of Jacques Snicket,” Violet said, “ifwe’re in jail.”“Blusin,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of, “We don’t havemuch choice,” and in small, tottering steps she led her siblings toward the V.F.D. van.“But how will we get on the van?” Violet asked, walking alongside her sister.“What will we say to the volunteers?” Klaus asked, hurrying to catch up.“Impro,” Sunny said, which meant “We’ll think of something,” but for once thethree children didn’t have to think of something. As the youngsters reached the van, afriendly-looking man with a guitar in his hands and a beard on his face leaned out ofone of the windows and called to them.“We almost left you behind, brother and sisters!” he said. “We filled the van upwith free gas, and now we’re all set to head off to the hospital.” With a smile, theman unlatched the door of the van and opened it, beckoning to the three children.“Climb aboard,” he said. “We don’t want our volunteers to get lost before we evensing the first verse. I heard something about murderers lurking around this area.”“Did you read it in the newspaper?” Klaus asked nervously.The bearded man laughed, and strummed a cheerful chord on his guitar. “Oh, no,”he said. “We don’t read the newspaper. It’s too depressing. Our motto is ‘No news isgood news.’ You must be new volunteers, not to know that. Well, hop in.”The Baudelaires hesitated. As I’m sure you know, it is rarely a good idea to getinto an automobile with somebody you haven’t met before, particularly if the personbelieves in such nonsense as “No news is good news.” But it is nevera good idea tostand around a flat and empty landscape while the police are closing in to arrest youfor a crime you have not committed, and the three children paused for a moment todecide between doing something which is rarely a good idea, and something that isnever a good idea. They looked at the bearded man with the guitar. They looked ateach other. And then they looked back at the Last Chance General Store, where theysaw the shopkeeper, rushing out of the front door and toward the van. “O.K.,” Violetsaid finally. “We’ll hop in.” The bearded man smiled, and the children stepped intothe V.F.D. van and shut the door behind them. They did not hop, even though the manhad asked them to “hop in,” because hopping is something done in the cheerfulmoments of one’s life. A plumber might hop, for instance, if she finally fixed aparticularly difficult leak in someone’s shower. A sculptor would hop if his sculptureof four basset hounds playing cards was finally finished. And I would hop likenobody has ever hopped before, if I could somehow go back to that terrible Thursday,and stop Beatrice from attending that afternoon tea where she met Esmé Squalor forthe first time. But Violet, Klaus, and Sunny did not hop, because they were notplumbers fixing leaks, or sculptors finishing works of art, or authors magicallyerasing a series of unfortunate events. They were three desperate children, falselyaccused of murder, forced to run out of a store into a stranger’s automobile to avoidcapture by the police. The Baudelaires were not hopping, even as the van started itsengine and began to drive away from the Last Chance General Store, ignoring thedesperate signals of the shopkeeper as he ran to try to stop them. As the V.F.D. vanbegan to drive across the lonely landscape, the Baudelaire orphans were not sure theywould ever hop again.Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.We visit people who are ill,And try to make them laugh,Even when the doctor saysHe must saw them in half.We sing and sing all night and day,And then we sing some more.We sing to boys with broken bonesAnd girls whose throats are sore.Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.We sing to men with measles,And to women with the flu,And if you breathe in deadly germs,We’ll probably sing to you.Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon .An associate of mine named William Congreve once wrote a very sad play thatbegins with the line “Music has charms to soothe a savage breast,” a sentence whichhere means that if you are nervous or upset, you might listen to some music to calmyou down or cheer you up. For instance, as I crouch here behind the altar of theCathedral of the Alleged Virgin, a friend of mine is playing a sonata on the pipeorgan, to calm me down and so the sounds of my typewriter will not be heard by theworshipers sitting in the pews. The mournful melody of the sonata reminds me of atune my father used to sing when he did the dishes, and as I listen to it I cantemporarily forget six or seven of my troubles.But the soothing effect of music on a savage breast obviously depends on whatkind of music is being played, and I’m sorry to say that as the Baudelaire orphanslistened to the song of V.F.D., they did not feel even one bit less nervous or upset.When Violet, Klaus, and Sunny first boarded the V.F.D. van, they were so worriedabout avoiding capture that they scarcely took a look around them until they werequite far away from the Last Chance General Store. But when the shopkeeper wasmerely a speck on the flat and empty landscape, the children turned their attention totheir new hiding place. There were about twenty people in the van, and every singleone of them was exceedingly cheerful. There were cheerful men, cheerful women, ahandful of cheerful children, and a very cheerful driver who occasionally took hiseyes off the road to grin cheerfully at all his passengers. When the Baudelaires took along trip in an automobile, they liked to pass the time reading or looking at thescenery and thinking their own private thoughts, but as soon as the van pulled awayfrom the general store, the bearded man began playing his guitar and led all of theVolunteers Fighting Disease in a cheerful song, and each “tra la la” only made theBaudelaires more anxious than before. When the volunteers began to sing the verseabout people’s noses bleeding, the siblings were sure someone would stop singingand say, “Wait a minute! These three children weren’t on the van before! They don’tbelong here!” When the singers reached the verse about the doctor sawing someonein half, the children were certain someone would stop singing and say, “Wait aminute! Those three people don’t know the lyrics to the song! They don’t belonghere!” And when the cheerful passengers sung the section of the song discussingdeadly germs, the siblings were unequivocally positive that someone would stopsinging and say, “Wait a minute! Those three children are the murderers described inThe Daily Punctilio! They don’t belong here!”But the Volunteers Fighting Disease were too cheerful to wait a minute. Theybelieved so strongly that no news is good news that none of them had even glanced atThe Daily Punctilio. And they were too busy singing to notice that the Baudelairesdidn’t belong on the van.“Boy, do I love that song!” the bearded man said, when the last chorus had ended.“I could sing it all the way to Heimlich Hospital . But I guess we’d better save ourvoices for the day’s work. So why don’t we settle down and have cheerfulconversations until we arrive?”“That sounds super-duper!” said one of the volunteers, and everyone nodded inagreement. The bearded man put away his guitar and sat down next to theBaudelaires.“We’d better make up false names,” Violet whispered to Klaus, “so no one willlearn who we are.”“But The Daily Punctilio got our names wrong,” Klaus whispered back, “so maybewe should use our real names.”“Well, let’s get to know each other,” the bearded man said cheerfully. “I like to getto know each and every one of our volunteers.”“Well, my name is Sally,” Violet began, “and-”“No, no,” the bearded man said. “We don’t use names in V.F.D. We just calleverybody ‘sister’ and ‘brother,’ because we believe all people are sisters andbrothers.”“I’m confused,” Klaus said. “I always thought that brothers and sisters are peoplewho share the same parents.”“Not always, brother,” the bearded man said. “Sometimes brothers and sisters arejust people who are united for a common cause.”“Does that mean, brother,” Violet said, trying this new use of the word “brother”and not liking it much, “that you don’t know the names of anyone in this van?”“That’s right, sister,” the bearded man said “And so you’ve never known the nameof anyone who’s been a Volunteer Fighting Disease?” Klaus asked.“Not a single one,” the bearded man said. “Why do you ask?”“There’s a person we know,” Violet said carefully, “who we think might have beenin V.F.D. He had one eyebrow instead of two, and a tattoo of an eye on his ankle.”The bearded man frowned. “I don’t know anyone of that description,” he said,“and I’ve been with the Volunteers Fighting Disease since the organization firststarted.”“Rats!” Sunny said.“What my sister means,” Klaus said, “is that we’re disappointed. We were hopingto learn more about this person.”“Are you sure he was in Volunteers Fighting Disease?” the bearded man asked.“No,” Klaus admitted. “We just know he worked in the volunteer something.”“Well, there are lots of volunteer somethings,” the bearded man replied. “Whatyou kids need is some sort of Library of Records.”“A Library of Records?” Violet said.“A Library of Records is a place where official information is stored,” the beardedman said. “In a Library of Records, you could find a list of every single volunteerorganization in the world. Or you could look up this person and see if there’s a file onhim. Perhaps that would tell you where he worked.”“Or how he knew our parents,” Klaus said, speaking out loud without thinking.“Your parents?” the bearded man said, looking around the van. “Are they here,too?”The Baudelaires looked at one another, wishing that their parents were there on thevan, even though it would be awkward to call their father “brother” and their mother“sister.” Sometimes it seemed to the children that it had been hundreds and hundredsof years since that terrible day at the beach when Mr. Poe brought them the dreadfulnews, but just as often it seemed as if it had been only minutes. Violet could pictureher father, sitting next to her, perhaps pointing out something interesting he had seenthrough the window. Klaus could picture his mother, smiling and shaking her head inamusement at the ridiculous lyrics of the V.F.D. song. And Sunny could picture allfive Baudelaires, together again, with nobody fleeing from the police, or accused ofmurder, or trying desperately to solve mysteries, or worst of all, gone forever in aterrible fire. But just because you can picture something does not make it so. TheBaudelaire parents were not in the van, and the children looked at the bearded manand shook their heads sadly.“My, you look glum,” the bearded man said. “Well, don’t worry. I’m surewherever your parents are, they’re having a good time, so let’s not see any frownyfaces. Being cheerful is the whole point of Volunteers Fighting Disease.”“What exactly will we be doing at the hospital?” Violet asked, eager to change thesubject.“Just what V.F.D. says,” the bearded man replied. “We’re volunteers, and we’ll befighting diseases.”“I hope we won’t be giving shots,” Klaus said. “Needles make me a bit nervous.”“Of course we won’t be giving shots,” the bearded man said. “We only do cheerfulthings. Mostly we wander the halls singing to sick people, and giving them heart-shapedballoons, like the song says.”“But how does that fight disease?” Violet said.“Because getting a cheerful balloon helps people picture getting better, and if youpicture something, it makes it so,” the bearded man explained. “After all, a cheerfulattitude is the most effective tool against sickness.”“I thought antibiotics were,” Klaus said.“Echinacea!” Sunny said. She meant “Or well-tested herbal remedies,” but thebearded man had stopped paying attention to the children and was looking out thewindow.“We’ve arrived, volunteers!” he called out. “We’re at Heimlich Hospital !” Heturned to the Baudelaires and pointed out at the horizon. “Isn’t it a beautifulbuilding?”The children looked out the windows of the van and found that they could onlyhalf agree with the bearded man, for the simple reason that Heimlich Hospital wasonly half a building, or at best two-thirds. The left side of the hospital was a shinywhite structure, with a row of tall pillars and small carved portraits of famous doctorsover each window. In front of the building was a neatly mowed lawn, with occasionalpatches of brightly colored wildflowers. But the right side of the hospital wasscarcely a structure at all, let alone a beautiful one. There were a few boards nailedtogether into rectangles, and a few planks nailed down for floors, but there were nowalls or windows, so it looked like a drawing of a hospital rather than a hospitalitself. There was no sign of any pillars and not even one carved doctor portrait on thishalf-finished side, just a few sheets of plastic fluttering in the wind, and instead of alawn there was just an empty field of dirt. It was as if the architect in charge ofconstructing the building had decided halfway through that he’d rather go on apicnic, and had never returned. The driver parked the van underneath a sign that washalf finished, too: the word “Heimlich” was in fancy gold letters on a clean whitesquare of wood, but the word “Hospital” was scrawled in ballpoint pen on a piece ofcardboard ripped from an old box.“I’m sure they’ll finish it someday,” the bearded man continued. “But in themeantime, we can picture the other half, and picturing something makes it so. Now,let’s picture ourselves getting out of the van.”The three Baudelaires did not have to picture it, but they followed the bearded manand the rest of the volunteers out of the van and onto the lawn in front of the prettierhalf of the hospital. The members of V.F.D. were stretching their arms and legs afterthe long drive, and helping the bearded man remove a big bunch of heart-shapedballoons from the back of the van, but the children merely stood around anxiouslyand tried to figure out what to do next.“Where should we go?” Violet asked. “If we walk around the hallways of thehospital singing to people, someone will recognize us.”“That’s true,” Klaus said. “The doctors, nurses, administrators, and patients can’tall believe that no news is good news. I’m sure some of them have read thismorning’s Daily Punctilio.”“Aronec,” Sunny said, which meant “And we’re not getting any closer to learninganything about V.F.D., or Jacques Snicket.”“That’s true,” Violet agreed. “Maybe we need to find a Library of Records, like thebearded man said.”“But where can we find one?” Klaus asked. “We’re in the middle of nowhere.”“No walk!” Sunny said. “I don’t want to start all that walking again either,” Violetsaid, “but I don’t see what else we can do.”“O.K., volunteers!” the bearded man said. He took his guitar out of the van andbegan playing some cheerful and familiar chords. “Everyone take a heart-shapedballoon and start singing!“We are Volunteers Fighting Disease,And we ‘re cheerful all day long,If someone said that we were sad,That person would be-”“Attention!” interrupted a voice that seemed to come from the sky. The voice wasfemale but very scratchy and faint, as if the voice were that of a woman talking witha piece of aluminum foil over her mouth. “Your attention please!”“Shh, everybody!” the bearded man said, stopping the song. “That’s Babs, theHead of Human Resources at the hospital. She must have an importantannouncement.”“Attention!” the voice said. “This is Babs Head of Human Resources. I have animportant announcement.”“Where is she?” Klaus asked him, worried that she might recognize the threeaccused murderers hiding in V.F.D.“In the hospital someplace,” the bearded man replied. “She prefers communicatingover the intercom.”The word “intercom” here refers to someone talking into a microphone someplaceand having their voice come out of speakers someplace else, and sure enough thechildren noticed a small row of square speakers placed on the finished half of thebuilding, just above the doctor portraits. “Attention!” the voice said again, and itbecame even scratchier and fainter, as if the woman with the piece of aluminum foilover her mouth had fallen into a swimming pool filled with fizzy soda. This is not apleasant way to hear someone talk, and yet as soon as Babs made her announcement,the savage breasts of the Baudelaire orphans were instantly soothed, as if the scratchyand faint voice were a calming piece of music. But the Baudelaires did not feel betterbecause of the way Babs’s voice sounded. The announcement soothed the children’ssavage breasts because of what it said.“I need three members of the Volunteers Fighting Disease who are willing to begiven a new assignment,” said the voice. “Those three volunteers should reportimmediately to my office, which is the seventeenth door on the left as you enter thefinished half of the building. Instead of walking around the hallways of the hospitalsinging to people, these three volunteers will be working in the Library of Recordshere at Heimlich Hospital .”Whether you have been sent to see the principal of your school for throwing wetpaper towels at the ceiling to see if they stick, or taken to the dentist to plead withhim to hollow out one of your teeth so you can smuggle a single page of your latestbook past the guards at the airport, it is never a pleasant feeling to stand outside thedoor of an office, and as the Baudelaire orphans stood at the door reading “Office ofthe Head of Human Resources” they were reminded of all the unpleasant offices theyhad recently visited On their very first day at Prufrock Preparatory School, beforethey had even met Isadora and Duncan Quagmire, the Baudelaires had visited theoffice of Vice Principal Nero and learned about all of the academy’s strict and unfairrules. When they worked at Lucky Smells Lumbermill, the siblings had beensummoned to the office of the owner, who made clear just how dreadful theirsituation really was. And, of course, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny had been many, manytimes to Mr. Poe’s office at the bank, where he coughed and talked on the phone andmade decisions about the Baudelaires’ future that had not proved to be good ones.But even if the children had not had all these unfortunate experiences in offices, itwas perfectly understandable that the Baudelaire children had to stand for a fewmoments in front of the seventeenth door on the left, and gather their courage toknock.“I’m not sure we should take this risk,” Violet said. “If Babs has read thismorning’s edition of The Daily Punctilio, she’ll recognize us soon as we walkthrough the door. We might well be knocking on the door of our jail cell.”“But the Library of Records might be our only hope,” Klaus said. “We need to findout who Jacques Snicket really was-where he worked, and how he knew us. If we getsome evidence, we can convince people that Count Olaf is still alive and that we’renot murderers.”“Curoy,” Sunny added, which meant “Besides, the Quagmire triplets are far, faraway, and we have only a few pages of their notebooks. We need to find the realmeaning of V.F.D.”“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “In the Library of Records, we might even solve themystery of that underground passageway that led from Jerome and Esmé Squalor’sapartment to the ashy remains of the Baudelaire mansion.”“Afficu,” Sunny said. She meant something like “And the only way we’ll get intothe Library of Records is if we talk to Babs, so it’s a risk we have to take.”“All right,” Violet said, looking down at her sister and smiling. “You’ve convincedme. But if Babs begins looking at us suspiciously, we’ll leave, agreed?”“Agreed,” Klaus said.“Yep,” Sunny said, and knocked on the door.“Who is it?” Babs’s voice called out.“It’s three members of Volunteers Fighting Disease,” Violet replied. “We’re here tovolunteer at the Library of Records.”“Come in,” Babs commanded, and the children opened the door and walked intothe office. “I was wondering when someone would show up,” the Head of HumanResources continued. “I was just finishing up reading this morning’s paper. Thesethree terrible children are running around killing people.”The Baudelaires looked at one another and were about to run back out the doorwhen they saw something in the office that changed their minds. The office of theHead of Human Resources at Heimlich Hospital was a small one, with a small desk,two small chairs, and a small window decorated with two small curtains. On thewindowsill was a small vase of yellow flowers and on the wall was a small tastefulportrait of a man leading a horse to a small pond of fresh water. But it was not thefurnishings, the flower arrangement, or the tasteful artwork that made the threeorphans stop.Babs’s voice had come from the direction of the desk, which the Baudelaires hadexpected, but what they hadn’t expected was that Babs was not sitting behind thedesk, or on the desk or even beneath it. Instead, a small square intercom speaker-justlike the ones on the outside of the hospital-had been placed in the middle of the desk,and it was from this speaker that the speaking had been spoken. It was strange to hearspeaking from a speaker instead of from the person who was speaking, but thechildren realized they could not be recognized if Babs could not see them, so they didnot run out of the room.A Series of Unfortunate Events 8 - TheHostile Hospital“We’re three children, too,” Violet said to the speaker, trying to be as honest as shecould “but we’d much rather volunteer in the hospital than embark on a life ofcrime.”“If you’re children, then be silent!” Babs’s voice said rudely. “In my opinion,children should be seen and not heard. I’m an adult, so it follows that I should beheard and not seen. That’s why I work exclusively over the intercom. You will beworking exclusively with the most important thing we do in this hospital. Can youguess what it is?”“Healing sick people?” Klaus guessed.“Be silent!” the speaker commanded. “Children should be seen and not heard,remember? Just because I can’t see you doesn’t mean you should start babbling aboutsick people. You’re wrong, anyway. The most important thing we do at the hospital ispaperwork, and you will be working at the Library of Records, filing paperwork. I’msure this will be difficult for you, because children never have any administrativeexperience.”“Hend,” said Sunny in disagreement. Violet was about to explain that her sistermeant something along the lines of “Actually, I worked as an administrative assistantat Prufrock Preparatory School,” but the intercom speaker was too busy reproving theBaudelaires, a phrase which here means “shouting ‘Be silent!’” at every opportunity.“Be silent!” the speaker shouted. “Instead of chattering away, report to the Libraryof Records at once. The Library of Records is located in the basement, at the verybottom of the staircase next to this office. You’ll go straight there every morningwhen the van arrives at Heimlich Hospital , and you’ll return straight to the van at theend of each day. The van will take you back home. Are there any questions?”The Baudelaires had plenty of questions, of course, but they did not ask them.They knew that if they said even one word, the intercom speaker would commandthem to be silent, and besides, they were eager to get to the Library of Records,where they hoped to answer the most important questions of their lives.“Excellent!” the speaker said. “You’re learning to be seen instead of heard. Now,get out of this office.”The children got out of that office and quickly found the staircase the speaker hadmentioned. The Baudelaires were glad that the route to the Library of Records was soeasy to remember, because Heimlich Hospital seemed like a place where it would bevery easy to get lost. The staircase curved this way and that, leading to many doorsand corridors, and every ten feet or so, nailed to the wall just below an intercomspeaker there was a complicated map of the hospital, filled with arrows, stars, andother symbols the Baudelaires did not recognize. Every so often, the children wouldsee someone from the hospital walking toward them. Although neither the VolunteersFighting Disease nor the Head of Human Resources had recognized the threechildren, it was certain that someone in the hospital must have read The DailyPunctilio, and the Baudelaires did not want to be seen or heard, and they would haveto turn and face the wall, pretending to consult the map so anyone walking by wouldnot see their faces.“That was close,” Violet sighed in relief, when a group of chatting doctors hadgone by without even glancing at the youngsters.“It was close,” Klaus agreed, “and we don’t want it to get any closer. I don’t thinkwe should get back on the van at the end of the day-or any other day. Sooner or laterwe’re bound to be recognized.”“You’re right,” Violet said. “We’d have to walk back through the hospital everyday, just to get to the van. But where will we go at night? People will think it is odd ifthree children are sleeping in the Library of Records.”“Half,” Sunny suggested.“That’s a pretty good idea,” Violet replied. “We could sleep in the unfinished halfof the hospital. Nobody will go there at night.”“Sleep all by ourselves, in a half-finished room?” Klaus asked. “It’ll be cold anddark.”“It can’t be much worse than the Orphans Shack at Prufrock Prep,” Violet said.“Danya,” Sunny said, which meant “Or the bedroom at Count Olaf’s house.”Klaus shuddered, remembering how terrible it was when Count Olaf had beentheir guardian. “You’re right,” he said, stopping at a door which read “Library ofRecords.” “The unfinished wing of the hospital can’t be that bad.”The Baudelaires knocked on the door, which opened almost immediately to revealone of the oldest men they had ever met, wearing one of the tiniest pairs of glassesthey had ever seen. Each lens was scarcely bigger than a green pea, and the man hadto squint in order to look at them.“My eyesight isn’t what it used to be,” he said, “but you appear to be children.And you’re very familiar children, too. I’m certain I’ve seen your faces somewherebefore.”The Baudelaires looked at one another in panic, not knowing whether to dash outof the room or to try to convince the man he was mistaken.“We’re new volunteers,” Violet said. “I don’t think we’ve ever met before.”“Babs assigned us to work in the Library of Records,” Klaus said.“Well, you’ve come to the right place,” the old man said with a wrinkled smile.“My name is Hal, and I’ve worked here in the Library of Records for more years thanI’d like to count. I’m afraid my eyesight isn’t what it used to be, so I asked Babs ifsome volunteers could help me.”“Wolick,” Sunny said.“My sister says we’re very happy to be of assistance,” Violet said, “and we are.”“Well, I’m glad to hear that,” Hal said. “Because there’s a lot of work to be done.Come on in and I’ll explain what you have to do.”The Baudelaires walked through the door and found themselves in a small roomwith nothing much in it but a small table that held a bowl of fresh fruit. “This is thelibrary?” Klaus said “Oh no,” the man said. “This is just an antechamber, a smallroom I’m using to store my fruit. If you get hungry during the day, you may helpyourself to something out of that bowl Also, this is where the intercom is, so we’llhave to report here whenever Babs makes an announcement.” He led them across theroom to a small door and took a loop of string out of the pocket of his coat. On theloop of string were hundreds of keys, which made tiny clanging noises as they jostledone another. Hal quickly found the right key to unlock the door. “This,” he said witha small smile, “is the Library of Records.”Hal ushered the children inside a dim room with very low ceilings-so low thatHal’s gray hair almost brushed against the top. But although the room was not verytall, it was enormous. The Library of Records stretched out so far in front of theBaudelaires that they could scarcely see the opposite wall, or, as the children lookedfrom side to side, the right and left walls. All they could see were big metal filecabinets, with neatly labeled drawers describing the files contained inside. The filecabinets were placed in row after row, as far as the eye could see. The rows wereplaced very close together, so that the siblings had to walk behind Hal in single file ashe gave them the tour of the room.“I’ve organized everything myself,” he explained. “The Library of Recordscontains information not only from Heimlich Hospital , but from all over the area.There’s information about everything from poetry to pills, from picture frames topyramids, and from pudding to psychology-and that’s just in the P aisle, which we’rewalking down right now.”“What an amazing place,” Klaus said. “Just think of everything we can learn fromreading all these files.”“No, no, no,” Hal said, shaking his head sternly. “We’re supposed to file thisinformation, not read it. I don’t want to see you touching any of these files exceptwhen you’re working with them. That’s why I keep all these file cabinets locked uptight. Now, let me show you exactly where you’ll be working.”Hal led them to the far wall and pointed out a small rectangular hole, just wideenough for Sunny or maybe Klaus to crawl through. Beside the hole was a basketwith a large stack of paper in it, and a bowl filled with paper clips. “Authoritiesdeposit information into the information chute, which begins outside the hospital andends right here,” he explained, “and I need two people to help me file these depositsin the right place. Here’s what you do. First, you remove the paper clips and put themin this bowl. Then you glance at the information and figure out where it goes.Remember, try to read as little as possible.” He paused, unclipped a small stack ofpaper, and squinted at the top page. “For instance,” he continued “You only have toread a few words to see that these paragraphs are about the weather last week atDamocles Dock, which is on the shore of some lake someplace. So you would ask meto unlock cabinets in aisle D, for Damocles, or W, for weather, or even P, forparagraphs. It’s your choice.”“But won’t it be difficult for people to find that information again?” Klaus asked.“They won’t know whether to look under D, W, or P.”“Then they’ll have to look under all three letters,” Hal said. “Sometimes theinformation you need is not in the most obvious place. Remember, paperwork is themost important thing we do at this hospital, so your job is very important. Do youthink you can file these papers correctly? I’d like you to start right away.”“I think we can,” Violet said. “But what will the third volunteer do?”Hal looked embarrassed and held up the loop of string with all the keys on it. “Ilost some of the keys to the file cabinets,” he admitted, “know why you three seem sofamiliar.“ Hal continued to lead Sunny down another aisle of file cabinets to show herwhere her teeth could be handy, so his voice floated over to the two older Baudelairesas if he were speaking on an intercom. ”I didn’t read it, of course, but there was someinformation about you in the file about the Snicket fires.”was born, and was looking at her siblings as they leaned over her crib to greet her. Thistime, she was sitting in the unfinished wing of the hospital where she worked, and waslooking at her siblings as they tried to guess what Hal had meant when he had mentioned“the Snicket fires.” If I had been with the children, I would have been able to tell them along and terrible story about men and women who joined a noble organization only to findtheir lives wrecked by a greedy man and a lazy newspaper, but the siblings were alone,and all they had of the story were a few pages from the Quagmire notebooks. It was night,and after working all day in the Library of Records, the Baudelaire orphans had madethemselves as comfortable as they could in the half finished section of Heimlich Hospital,but I’m sorry to say the phrase “as comfortable as they could” here means “not verycomfortable at all.” Violet had found a few flashlights designed to be used by buildersworking in dark corners, but when she arranged them to light up their surroundings, thelight only made clear just how filthy their surroundings really were. Klaus had found somedropcloths, designed to be used by painters who did not want to drip paint on the floor, butwhen he wrapped them around himself and his sisters, the warmth only made clear justhow freezing it was when the evening wind blew through the sheets of plastic that werenailed to the wooden boards. And Sunny had used her teeth to chop up some of the fruit inHal’s bowl, to make a sort of fruit salad for dinner, but each handful of chopped fruit onlymade clear just how inappropriate it was to be living in such a bare and lonely place. Buteven though it was clear to the children how filthy, freezing, and inappropriate their newliving quarters were, nothing else seemed clear at all.“We wanted to use the Library of Records to learn more about Jacques Snicket,”Violet said, “but we might end up learning more about ourselves. What in the worlddo you think is written about us in that file Hal mentioned?”“I don’t know,” Klaus replied, “and I don’t think Hal knows, either. He said hedoesn’t read any of the files.”“Seerg,” Sunny said, which meant “And I was afraid to ask him any more aboutit.”“Me, too,” Violet said. “We simply can’t call attention to ourselves. Any minutenow, Hal could learn that we’re wanted for murder, and we’d be dragged off to jailbefore we learned anything more.”“We’ve already escaped from one jail cell,” Klaus said. “I don’t know if we coulddo it again.”“I thought that if we had a chance to look over these pages from Duncan’s andIsadora’s notebooks,” Violet said, “we would find the answers to our questions, butthe Quagmires’ notes are very difficult to read.”Klaus frowned, and moved a few fragments of the Quagmire pages around as ifthey were pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. “The harpoon gun tore these pages to shreds,” hesaid. “Look what Duncan has written here: ‘Jacques Snicket worked for V.F.D.,which stands for Volunteer-‘ and then it’s ripped, right in the middle of the sentence.”“And on this page,” Violet said, picking up a page I cannot bear to think about, “itreads, ”In photographs, and in each public place, Snicket rarely shows his face.“Isadora must have written that one-it’s a rhyming couplet.”“This scrap says ‘apartment,’” Klaus said, “and has what looks like half of a map.That might have to do with the apartment where we lived with Jerome and EsméSqualor.”“Don’t remind me,” Violet said, shuddering at the thought of all the misfortune thechildren had encountered at 667 Dark Avenue .“Rabave,” Sunny said, pointing to one of the pieces of paper.“This page has two names on it,” Violet said. “One name is Al Funcoot.”“That’s the man who wrote that horrible play Olaf forced us to perform,” Klaussaid.“I know,” Violet said, “but the other name I don’t recognize: ‘Ana Gram.’”“Well, the Quagmires were researching Count Olaf and his sinister plot,” Klaussaid. “Maybe Ana Gram is one of Olaf’s associates.”“It’s probably not the hook-handed man,” Violet said, “or the bald man with thelong nose. Ana is not usually a man’s name.”“It could be the name of one of the white-faced women,” Klaus said.“Orlando !” Sunny said, which meant “Or the one who looks like neither a mannor a woman.”“Or someone we haven’t even met yet,” Violet said with a sigh, and turned herattention to another piece of paper. “This page isn’t ripped at all, but all it has on it isa long list of dates. It looks like something was going on every twelve weeks or so.”Klaus picked up the smallest piece and held it up for his sisters to see. Behind hisglasses his eyes looked very sad. “This piece just says ‘fire,’” he said quietly, and thethree Baudelaires looked down sadly at the dusty floor. With any word, there aresubconscious associations, which simply means that certain words make you think ofcertain things, even if you don’t want to. The word “cake,” for example, mightremind you of your birthday, and the words “prison warden” might remind you ofsomeone you haven’t seen in a very long time. The word “Beatrice” reminds me of avolunteer organization that was swarming with corruption, and the word “midnight”reminds me that I must keep writing this chapter very quickly, or else I will probablydrown. But the Baudelaires had all sorts of subconscious associations with the word“fire,” and none of them were pleasant to think about. The word made the childrenthink of Hal, who had mentioned something about the Snicket fires that afternoon inthe Library of Records. “Fire” made the youngsters think of Duncan and IsadoraQuagmire, who had lost their parents and their brother, Quigley, in a fire. And, ofcourse, the word “fire” made the Baudelaires think of the fire that had destroyed theirhome and had begun the unfortunate journey that had led them to the half-finishedwing of Heimlich Hospital . The three children huddled quietly together under theirdropcloths, getting colder and colder as they thought about all the fires andsubconscious associations that were in the Baudelaire lives.“That file must contain the answers to all these mysteries,” Violet said finally. “Weneed to find out who Jacques Snicket was, and why he had the same tattoo as CountOlaf.”“And we need to know why he was murdered,” Klaus added, “and we need tolearn the secret of V.F.D.”“Us,” Sunny said, which meant “And we need to know why there’s a picture of usin the file.”“We have to get our hands on that file,” Violet said.“That’s easier said than done,” Klaus pointed out. “Hal told us specifically not totouch any of the files we weren’t working with, and he’ll be right there with us in theLibrary of Records.”“We’ll just have to find a way,” Violet replied. “Now, let’s try and get a goodnight’s sleep, so we can stay alert tomorrow, and get ahold of the file on the Snicketfires.”Klaus and Sunny nodded in agreement, and arranged the dropcloths into a sort ofbed, while Violet turned off the flashlights one by one. The three Baudelaires huddledtogether for the rest of the night, getting what sleep they could on a filthy floor with acold wind blowing through their inappropriate home, and in the morning, after abreakfast of leftover fruit salad, they walked to the completed half of HeimlichHospital and carefully walked down all those stairs, past the intercom speakers andthe confusing maps. Hal was already in the Library of Records when they arrived,unlocking the file cabinets with his long loop of keys, and immediately Violet andKlaus got to work filing the information that had come through the chute during thenight, while Sunny turned her tooths’ attention to the file cabinets that needed to beopened. But the Baudelaires’ minds were not on filing, or on file cabinets. Theirminds were on the file.Just about everything in this world is easier said than done, with the exception of“systematically assisting Sisyphus’s stealthy, cyst-susceptible sister,” which is easierdone than said. But it is frustrating to be reminded of this fact. As Violet filed a pieceof paper containing information on cuttlefish under M, for mollusks, she said toherself, “I’ll just walk down the S aisle and look under Snicket,” but Hal was alreadyin the S aisle, filing away paintings of sewing machines, and she could not do whatshe said. As Klaus filed a survey of thimbles under P, for protection of the thumb, hesaid to himself, “I’ll just walk down the F aisle and look under F, for ‘fires,’” but bythat time Hal had moved to the F aisle, and was opening a file cabinet to rearrangebiographies of famous Finnish fishermen. And Sunny twisted her teeth this way andthat, trying to open one of the locked file cabinets in the B aisle, thinking that perhapsthe file was inside, filed under Baudelaires, but when the lock finally broke just afterlunch, the youngest sibling opened the cabinet and saw that it was absolutely empty.“Nil,” Sunny said, as the three children took a short fruit break in the antechamber.“Me neither,” Klaus said. “But how can we get ahold of the file, when Hal isalways around?”“Maybe we can just ask him to find it for us,” Violet said. “If this were a regularlibrary, we would ask the librarian for help. In a Library of Records, maybe weshould ask Hal.”“You can ask me anything you want,” Hal said, walking into the antechamber “butfirst I have to ask you something.” He walked over to the children and pointed at oneof the fruits. “Is that a plum or a persimmon?” he asked. “My eyesight isn’t what itused to be, I’m afraid.”“It’s a plum,” Violet said, handing it to him.“Oh good,” Hal replied, looking it over for bruises. “I was not in the mood for apersimmon. Now, what is your question?”“We had a question about a certain file,” Klaus began carefully, not wanting Hal tobecome suspicious. “I know it’s not customary for us to read the files, but if we werevery curious, would it be O.K. to make an exception?”Hal bit into the plum and frowned. “Why would you want to read one of thefiles?” he asked. “Children should read happy books with bright pictures, not officialinformation from the Library of Records.”“But we’re interested in official information,” Violet said, “and we’re so busyfiling things away that we don’t get a chance to read anything in the files. That’s whywe were hoping to take one home with us and read it.”Hal shook his head. “Paperwork is the most important thing we do in thishospital,” he said sternly. “That’s why the files are only allowed out of the room ifthere’s a very important reason. For example-”But the Baudelaires did not get to hear an example, because Hal was interruptedby a voice coming over the intercom. “Attention!” the voice said, and the childrenturned to face a small square speaker. “Attention! Attention!”The three siblings looked at one another in shock and horror, and then at the wallwhere the speaker was hanging. The voice coming over the intercom was not Babs’s.It was a faint voice, and it was a scratchy voice, but it was not the voice of the Headof Human Resources at Heimlich Hospital . It was a voice that the Baudelaires heardwherever they went, no matter where they lived or who tried to protect them, andeven though the children had heard this voice so many times before, they had nevergotten used to its sneering tone, as if the person talking were telling a joke with ahorrible and violent punch line. “Attention!” the voice said again, but the orphans didnot have to be told to pay attention to the terrible voice of Count Olaf.“Babs has resigned from Heimlich Hospital ,” said the voice, and the siblings feltas if they could see the cruel smile Olaf always had on his face when he was tellinglies. “She decided to pursue a career as a stuntwoman, and has begun throwingherself off buildings immediately. My name is Mattathias, and I am the new Head ofHuman Resources. I will be conducting a complete inspection of every singleemployee here at Heimlich Hospital , beginning immediately. That is all.”“An inspection,” Hal repeated, finishing his plum. “What nonsense. They shouldfinish the other half of this hospital, instead of wasting time inspecting everything.”“What happens during an inspection?” Violet asked.“Oh, they just come and look you over,” Hal said carelessly, and began walkingback to the Library of Records. “We’d better get back to work. There is a lot moreinformation to file.”“We’ll be along in a moment,” Klaus promised. “I’m not quite done with myfruit.”“Well, hurry up,” Hal said, and left the anteroom. The Baudelaires looked at oneanother in worry and dismay.“He’s found us again,” Violet said, talking quietly so Hal could not hear them. Shecould barely hear her own voice over the sound of her heart pounding with fear.“He must know we’re here,” Klaus agreed. “That’s why he’s doing the inspectionso he can find us and snatch us away.”“Tell!” Sunny said.“Who can we tell?” Klaus asked. “Everyone thinks Count Olaf is dead. Theywon’t believe three children if we say that he’s disguised himself as Mattathias, thenew Head of Human Resources.”“Particularly three children who are on the front page of The Daily Punctilio,”Violet added, “wanted for murder. Our only chance is to get that file on the Snicketfires, and see if it has any evidence that will bring Olaf to justice.”“But files aren’t allowed out of the Library of Records,” Klaus said.“Then we’ll have to read them right here,” Violet said.“That’s easier said than done,” Klaus pointed out. “We don’t even know whatletter to look under, and Hal will be right in the room with us all day long.”“Night!” Sunny said.“You’re right, Sunny,” Violet said. “Hal is here all day long, but he goes home atnight. When it gets dark, we’ll sneak back over here from the half-finished wing. It’sthe only way we’ll be able to find the file.”“You’re forgetting something,” Klaus said. “The Library of Records will be lockedup tight. Hal locks all of the file cabinets, remember?”“I hadn’t thought of that,” Violet admitted. “I can invent one lockpick, but I’m notsure I’ll have time to invent enough lockpicks to work on all those file cabinets.”“Deashew!” Sunny said, which meant something like “And it takes me severalhours to open one cabinet with my teeth!”“Without the keys, we’ll never get the file,” Klaus said, “and without the file, we’llnever defeat Count Olaf. What can we do?”The children sighed, and thought as hard as they could, staring in front of them asthey did so, and as soon as they stared in front of them they saw something that gavethem an idea. The thing they saw was small, and round, and had colorful and shinyskin, and the youngsters could see that it was a persimmon. But the Baudelaires knewthat if someone’s eyesight wasn’t what it used to be, it might look like a plum. TheBaudelaire orphans sat and stared at the persimmon, and began to think how theymight fool someone into thinking one thing was really another.story about Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire, and how they discovered somethingin the Library of Records of Heimlich Hospital that changed their lives forever and stillgives me the heebie-jeebies whenever I am alone at night STOP. But if this were a bookabout me, instead of about the three children who would soon run into someone they hadhoped never to see again, I might pause for a moment and tell you about something I didmany years ago that still troubles me. It was a necessary thing to do, but it was not a nicething, and even now, I get a small quiver of shame in my stomach whenever I rememberit. I might be doing something I enjoy-walking along the promenade deck of a ship, orlooking through a telescope at the aurora borealis, or wandering into a bookstore andplacing my books on the highest place in the shelf, so that no one will be tempted to buyand read them-when I will suddenly remember this thing I did, and think to myself, Was itreally necessary? Was it absolutely necessary to steal that sugar bowl from Esmé Squalor?The Baudelaire orphans were experiencing similar quivers that afternoon, as theyfinished up the day’s work in the Library of Records. Every time Violet put a file inits proper place, she would feel her hair ribbon in her pocket, and get a quiver in herstomach as she thought about what she and her siblings were up to. Klaus would takea stack of papers from the basket in front of the deposit chute, and instead of placingthe paper clips in the small bowl, he would keep them hidden in his hand, feeling aquiver in his stomach as he thought about the trick he and his sisters were going toplay. And whenever Hal turned his back, and Klaus passed the paper clips to Sunny,the youngest Baudelaire felt a quiver in her stomach as she thought about the sneakyway they were going to return to the Library of Records that night. By the time Halwas locking up the file cabinets for the day with his long loop of keys, the threeBaudelaire children had enough quivers in their stomach to attend a Quivery StomachFestival, if there had been one in the area that afternoon.“Is it absolutely necessary to do this?” Violet murmured to Klaus, as the threechildren followed Hal out of the library into the anteroom. She took her hair ribbonout of her pocket and smoothed it out, making sure it didn’t have any tangles. “It’snot a nice thing to do.”“I know,” Klaus answered, holding his hand out so Sunny could hand back thepaper clips. “I have a quiver in my stomach just thinking about it. But it’s the onlyway we can get our hands on that file.”“Olaf,” Sunny said grimly. She meant “Before Mattathias gets his hands on us,”and as soon as she was finished with her sentence, Mattathias’s scratchy voice cameover the intercom.“Attention! Attention!” the voice said, as Hal and the Baudelaires looked up at thesquare speaker. “This is Mattathias, the new Head of Human Resources. Inspectionsare over for the day but will continue tomorrow.”“What nonsense,” Hal muttered, putting the loop of keys down on the table. TheBaudelaires looked at one another, and then at the keys, as Mattathias continued hisannouncement.“Also,” the speaker said, “if anyone in the hospital has any valuables of any kind,please bring them to the Human Resources office for safekeeping. Thank you.”“My eyeglasses are somewhat valuable,” Hal said, taking them off, “but I’m notgoing to bring them to the Human Resources office. I might not ever see them again.”“That’s probably true,” Violet said, shaking her head at Mattathias’s audacity, aword which here means “attempt to steal valuables from hospital employees, inaddition to snatching the Baudelaire fortune.”“Besides,” Hal said, smiling at the children and reaching for his coat, “nobody’sgoing to steal anything from me. You three are the only people I see at the hospital,and I trust you absolutely. Now, where did I put my keys?”“Here they are,” Violet said, and the quiver in her stomach got worse. She held upher hair ribbon, which had been tied into a circle to look like a loop of string.Hanging from the ribbon was a long row of paper clips, which Sunny had fashionedinto different shapes with her teeth when Hal wasn’t looking. The result lookedsomething like Hal’s loop of keys, the way a horse looks something like a cow, or awoman in a green dress looks something like a pine tree, but there was no wayanyone would look at Violet’s hair ribbon full of chewed-up paper clips and think itwas a ring of keys-unless, of course, their eyesight was not what it used to be. Thethree children waited as Hal squinted at what Violet was holding.“Those are my keys?” Hal said doubtfully. “I thought I put them down on thetable.”“Oh, no,” Klaus said quickly, standing in front of the table so Hal wouldn’t catch aglimpse of his real keys. “Violet has them.”“Here,” Violet said, moving them back and forth so they would be even harder tosquint at, “why don’t I put them in your coat pocket for you?”“Thank you,” Hal said, as Violet dropped them into his overcoat pocket. He lookedat the Baudelaires, his tiny eyes shining with gratitude. “That’s another way you threehave helped me. My eyesight’s not what it used to be, you know, so I’m glad I canrely on such good volunteers. Well, good night, children. I’ll see you tomorrow.”“Good night, Hal,” Klaus replied. “We’re just going to have one last piece of fruithere in the anteroom.”“Don’t spoil your dinner,” Hal said. “It’s supposed to be a very cold evening, so Ibet your parents have cooked up a nice hot meal.” Hal smiled and shut the doorbehind him, leaving the children alone with the real keys to the Library of Recordsand the quivery feeling still in their stomachs.“Someday,” Violet said quietly, “we’ll apologize to Hal for playing a trick on him,and explain why we had to break the rules. This wasn’t a nice thing to do, eventhough it was necessary.”“And we’ll return to the Last Chance General Store,” Klaus said, “and explain tothe shopkeeper why we had to run away.”“Twisp,” Sunny said firmly, which meant “But not until we get ahold of the file,solve all these mysteries, and prove our innocence.”“You’re right, Sunny,” Violet said, with a sigh. “Let’s get started. Klaus, see if youcan find the right key for the Library door.”Klaus nodded, and carried Hal’s keys over to the door. Not too long ago, when theBaudelaires had been staying with Aunt Josephine by the shores of Lake Lachrymose, Klaus had been in a situation in which he had to match up a key to a locked doorvery, very quickly, and since then he had been quite good at it. He looked at the lockof the door, which had a very short and narrow keyhole, and then looked at the loopof string, which had one very short and narrow key, and in no time at all the childrenwere reentering the Library of Records and looking down the dim aisles of filecabinets.“I’m going to lock the door behind us,” Klaus said, “so that nobody will getsuspicious if they happen to walk into the anteroom.”“Like Mattathias,” said Violet with a shudder. “On the intercom he said that theywere stopping the inspections for the day, but I bet he’s really still looking.”“Vapey,” Sunny said, which meant “Then let’s hurry.”“Let’s start with the S aisle,” Violet said. “For Snicket.”“Right,” Klaus said, locking the door with a rattle. The three children found the Saisle and began walking past the file cabinets, reading the labels on them to figure outwhich one to open.“Sauce to Saxifrage,” Klaus read out loud. “That means that anything that fallsalphabetically between the word ‘sauce’ and the word ‘saxifrage’ will be in thiscabinet. That would be fine if we wanted the Sawmill file.”“Or the Sauna file,” Violet said. “Let’s move on.”The children moved on, their footsteps echoing off the low ceilings of the room.“Scarab to Scavenger,” Klaus said, reading one farther down the aisle. Sunny andViolet shook their heads, and the Baudelaires kept moving.“Secretary to Sediment,” Violet read. “We’re still not there.”“Kalm,” Sunny said, which meant “I can’t read very well, but I think this one says‘Sequel to Serenity.’”“You’re right, Sunny,” Klaus said, smiling at his sister. “It’s the wrong one.”“Shed to Sheepshank,” Violet read.“Shellac to Sherbet,” Klaus read, walking farther down the aisle.“Shipwreck to Shrimp.”“Sicily to Sideways.”“Skylight to Slob.”“Sludge to Smoke.”“Snack to Snifter.”“Snowball to Sober.”“Sonnet to Spackle.”“Wait!” Klaus cried. “Back up! Snicket is between Snack and Snifter.”“You’re right,” Violet said, stepping back to find the right cabinet. “I was sodistracted by all the strange file names that I forgot what we were looking for. Here itis, Snack to Snifter. Let’s hope the file we’re looking for is here.”Klaus looked at the lock on the file cabinet, and found the right key on Hal’s loopon only the third try. “It should be in the bottom drawer,” Klaus said, “close toSnifter. Let’s look.”The Baudelaires looked. A snifter is a type of glass, usually meant for holdingbrandy, although it is also the term for a strong wind. Plenty of words are close to“snifter” in the alphabet, and the children found many of them. There was a file onsniffing, which seemed to have many photographs of noses. There was a file onSnell’s Law, which states that a ray of light passing from one uniform medium toanother produces an identical ratio between the sine of the angle of incidence and thesine of the angle of refraction, which Klaus already knew. There was a file on theinventor of the sneaker, whom Violet admired very much, and one on snicking, whichis something Sunny had done many times with her teeth. But there was not a singlescrap of paper marked Snicket. The children sighed in disappointment, and shut thedrawer of the file cabinet so Klaus could lock it again.“Let’s try the J aisle, for Jacques,” Violet suggested.“Shh,” Sunny said.“No, Sunny,” Klaus said gently. “I don’t think the H aisle is a good bet. Whywould Hal have filed it under H?”“Shh,” Sunny insisted, pointing at the door, and her siblings knew instantly thatthey had misunderstood her. Usually when Sunny said “Shh,” she meant somethingalong the lines of “I think the H aisle might be a good place to look for the file,” butthis time she meant something more along the lines of “Be quiet! I think I hearsomeone walking into the anteroom of the Library of Records.” Sure enough, whenthe Baudelaires listened closely, they could hear the clomping of some odd, teeteringfootsteps, as if someone were walking on very thin stilts. The footsteps grew closerand closer, and then stopped, and as the three children held their breath, the door tothe Library rattled as someone tried to open the door.“Maybe it’s Hal,” Violet whispered, “trying to unlock the door with a paper clip.”“Maybe it’s Mattathias,” Klaus whispered, “looking for us.”“Janitor,” Sunny whispered.“Well, whoever it is,” Violet said, “we’d better hurry to the J aisle.”The Baudelaires tiptoed across the low-ceilinged room to the J aisle, and walkeddown it quickly, reading the labels of the file cabinets.“Jabberwocky to Jackal.”“Jacket to Jack-o’-Lanterns.”“Nersai.”“That’s it!” Klaus whispered. “Jacques will be in Jackline to Jacutinga.”“We hope,” Violet said, as the door rattled again. Klaus hurried to find the rightkey, and the children opened the top drawer to look for Jacques. As Violet knew,jackline is a kind of rope used in sailing, and as Klaus knew, jacutinga is a sort ofgold-bearing iron ore found in Brazil , and once again there were plenty of filesbetween these two, but although the children found information on jack-o’-lanterns,Jack Russell terriers, and Jacobean drama, there was no file marked “Jacques.”“Fire!” Klaus whispered, shutting and locking the file cabinet. “Let’s head to the Faisle.”“And hurry,” Violet said. “It sounds like the person in the anteroom is picking thelock.”It was true. The Baudelaires paused for a moment and heard a muffled scratchingfrom behind the door, as if something long and thin were being stuck in the keyholeto try to unlock the lock. Violet knew, from when she and her siblings lived withUncle Monty, that a lockpick can often take a long time to work properly, even if ithas been made by one of the world’s greatest inventors, but the children nonethelessmoved to the F aisle as fast as their tiptoes could carry them.“Fabian to Fact.”“Fainting to Fangs.”“Fatalism to Faulkner.”“Fear to Fermat.”“Ficus to Filth.”“Fin de Siécle to Fissle-here it is!”Once more, the Baudelaires hurried to find the proper key, and then the properdrawer and then the proper file. “Fin de siéecle” is a term for a time in history when acentury is drawing to a close, and “fissle” is a fancy word for a rustling noise, like theone that continued to come from behind the locked door as the children lookedfrantically for Fire. But the papers went right from Finland to Firmament, without asingle word on Fire in between.“What will we do?” Violet asked, as the door began to rattle again. “Where elsecould the file be?”“Let’s try to think,” Klaus said. “What did Hal say about the file? We know it hasto do with Jacques Snicket, and with fire.”“Prem!” Sunny said, which meant “But we looked under Snicket, Jacques, andFire already.”“There must be something else,” Violet said. “We have to find this file. It hascrucial information about Jacques Snicket and V.F.D.”“And about us,” Klaus said. “Don’t forget that.”The three children looked at one another.“Baudelaire!” Sunny whispered.Without another word, the orphans ran to the B aisle, and hurried past Babbitt toBabylon , Bacteria to Ballet, and Bamboo to Baskerville, stopping at Bat Mitzvah toBavarian Cream. As the door continued to fissle behind them, Klaus tried nine keysin a row before finally opening the cabinet, and there, between the Jewish coming-ofage ceremony for young women, and the delicious filling of certain doughnuts, thechildren found a folder marked “Baudelaire.”“It’s here,” Klaus said, taking it out of the drawer with trembling hands.“What does it say? What does it say?” Violet asked in excitement.“Look,” Klaus said. “There’s a note on the front.”“Read it!” Sunny said in a frantic whisper, as the door began to shake violently onits hinges. Whoever was on the other side of the door was obviously gettingfrustrated with trying to pick the lock.Klaus held up the file so he could see what the note said in the dim light of theroom. “‘All thirteen pages of the Snicket file,’” he read, ‘“have been removed fromthe Library of Records for the official investigation.’” He looked up at his sisters, andthey could see that, behind his glasses, his eyes were filling with tears. “That must bewhen Hal saw our picture,” he said. “When he removed the file and gave it to theofficial investigators.” He dropped the file on the floor and then sat down beside it indespair. “There’s nothing here.”“Yes there is!” Violet said. “Look!”The Baudelaires looked at the file where Klaus had dropped it on the ground.There, behind the note, was a single sheet of paper. “It’s page thirteen,” Violet said,looking at a number typed in a corner of the paper. “The investigators must have leftit behind by mistake.”“That’s why you should keep paper clips on papers that belong together,” Klaussaid, “even when you file them. But what does the page say?”With a long crackle!and a loud bang,the door to the Library of Records wasknocked off its hinges, and fell to the floor of the enormous room as if it had fainted.But the children paid no attention. Violet, Klaus, and Sunny all sat and looked at pagethirteen of the file, too amazed to even listen to the odd, teetering footsteps as theintruder entered the room and began to walk along the aisles of file cabinets.Page thirteen of the Baudelaire file was not a crowded sheet of paper-there wasjust one photograph stapled into place, below one sentence of type. But sometimes ittakes only a photograph and a sentence to make an author cry himself to sleep evenyears after the photograph was taken, or to make three siblings sit and stare at a pagefor a long time, as if an entire book were printed on one sheet of paper.There were four people in the photograph, standing together outside a building theBaudelaires recognized immediately. It was 667 Dark Avenue , where the orphanshad lived with Jerome and Esmé Squalor for a brief time, until it became anotherplace too treacherous for the children to stay. The first person in the photograph wasJacques Snicket, who was looking at the photographer and smiling. Standing next toJacques was a man who was turned away from the camera, so the children could notsee his face, only one of his hands, which was clutching a notebook and pen, as if theobscured man were a writer of some sort. The children had not seen Jacques Snicketsince he was murdered, of course, and the writer appeared to be someone they hadnever seen at all. But standing next to these two people were another two people theBaudelaire children thought they would never see again. Bundled up in long coats,looking cold but happy, were the Baudelaire parents.“Because of the evidence discussed on page nine,” read the sentence above thephotograph, “experts now suspect that there may in fact be one survivor of the fire,but the survivor’s whereabouts are unknown.”C H A P T E RSeven“I never thought I’d live to see the day,” Violet said, and took another look at pagethirteen of the file. The Baudelaire parents looked back at her, and for a moment itseemed to Violet her father would step out of the photograph and say, “There you are,Ed. Where have you been?” Ed was short for Thomas Alva Edison, one of thegreatest inventors of all time, and it was a special nickname only used by her father,but the man in the photograph did not move, of course, but only stood smiling infront of 667 Dark Avenue.“Me neither,” Klaus said. “I never thought we’d see our parents again.” Themiddle Baudelaire looked at his mother’s coat, which had a secret pocket on theinside. In the secret pocket, she often kept a small pocket dictionary, which she wouldtake out whenever she encountered a word she did not know. Because Klaus was sointerested in reading, she had promised that someday she would give the pocketdictionary to him, and now it seemed to Klaus that his mother was about to reach intoher coat and put the small, leatherbound book in his hand.“Neither me,” Sunny said. She looked at her parents’ smiles, and suddenlyremembered, for the first time since the fire, a song that her mother and father used tosing together, when it was time for Sunny to go to sleep. The song was called “TheButcher Boy,” and the Baudelaire parents would take turns singing the verses, hermother singing in her breathy, high voice, and her father in his, which was as low anddeep as a foghorn. “The Butcher Boy” was the perfect way for Sunny to end the day,safe and cozy in the Baudelaire crib.“This photograph must have been taken a long time ago,” Violet said. “Look howmuch younger they look. They aren’t even wearing their wedding rings.”“‘Because of the evidence discussed on page nine,’” Klaus said, reading thesentence typed above the photograph, “‘experts now suspect that there may in fact beone survivor of the fire, but the survivor’s whereabouts are unknown.’” He stopped,and looked at his sisters. “What does that mean?” he said, in a very faint voice. “Doesthat mean one of our parents is still alive?”“Well, well, well,” said a familiar and sneering voice, and the children heard theodd, tottering footsteps walk straight toward them. “Look what we have here.”The Baudelaire orphans had been so shocked by what they had found that they hadforgotten about the person breaking into the Library of Records, and now they lookedup to see a tall skinny figure walking down the B aisle STOP. It was a person theyhad seen recently, and one they had hoped never to see again. There are manydifferent ways of describing this person, including “Count Olaf’s girlfriend,” “theBaudelaire children’s former guardian,” “the city’s sixth most important financialadvisor,” “a former resident of 667 Dark Avenue,” and several phrases that are far toonasty to be placed in a book. But the name she preferred was the one that camesnarling out of her lipsticked mouth.“I am Esmé Gigi Geniveve Squalor,” said Esmé Gigi Geniveve Squalor, as if theBaudelaires would ever forget her, no matter how hard they tried. She stoppedwalking and stood in front of the Baudelaires, who saw immediately why herfootsteps had been so odd and tottering. For as long as the children had known her,Esmé Squalor had been a slave to fashion, a phrase which here means “dressed inincredibly expensive, and often incredibly absurd, outfits.” This evening she waswearing a long coat made from the fur of a number of animals that had been killed inparticularly unpleasant ways, and she was carrying a handbag shaped like an eye, justlike the tattoo her boyfriend had on his left ankle. She wore a hat with a small veilthat hung in front of her face, as if she had blown her nose with a black lacyhandkerchief, and then forgotten to remove it, and on her feet she had a pair of shoeswith stiletto heels. A stiletto is a small, slender knife resembling a dagger, such asmight be carried by a carnival performer or a murderer, and the word “stiletto” hasbeen used to describe a woman’s shoe with a very long and narrow heel. In this case,however, the phrase “shoes with stiletto heels” actually refers to a pair of shoes madewith a small, slender knife where each heel should be. The stilettos were pointingstraight down, so that Esmé viciously stabbed the floor of the Library of Recordswith each step, and occasionally the stilettos stuck, so the wicked woman had topause and yank them out of the floor, which explained why her footsteps were so oddand tottering. These shoes happened to be the absolute latest fashion, but theBaudelaires had more important things to do than leaf through magazines describingwhat was in and what was out, so they could only stare at Esmé‘s shoes and wonderwhy she was wearing footwear that was so violent and impractical.A Series of Unfortunate Events 8 - TheHostile Hospital“This is a pleasant surprise,” Esmé said. “Olaf asked me to break in here anddestroy the Baudelaire file, but now we can destroy the Baudelaires as well.”The children looked at each other in shock. “You and Olaf know about the file?”Violet asked.Esmé laughed in a particularly nasty way, and, from behind her veil, smiled aparticularly nasty smile. “Of course we know about it,” she snarled. “That’s why I’mhere-to destroy all thirteen pages.” She took one odd, tottering step toward theBaudelaires. “That’s why we destroyed Jacques Snicket.” She took another stabbingstep down the aisle. “And that’s why we’re going to destroy you.” She looked downat her shoe and shook her foot wildly to get the blade out of the library floor.“Heimlich Hospital is about to have three new patients,” she said, “but I’m afraid it’llbe too late for any doctor to save their lives.”Klaus stood up, and followed his sisters as they began to step away from the slaveto fashion who was moving slowly toward them. “Who survived the fire?” he askedEsmé, holding up the page from the file. “Is one of our parents alive?”Esmé frowned, and teetered on her stiletto heels as she tried to snatch the pageaway. “Did you read the file?’”she demanded in a terrible voice. “ What does the filesay?”“You’ll never find out!” Violet cried, and turned to her siblings. “Run!”The Baudelaires ran, straight down the aisle past the rest of the B files, roundingthe corner past the cabinet that read “Byron to Byzantine” and around to the sectionof the library where all of the C files were stored.“We’re running the wrong way,” Klaus said.“Egress,” Sunny agreed, which meant something along the lines of, “Klaus isright-the exit is the other way.”“So is Esmé,” Violet replied. “Somehow, we’ll have to go around her.”“I’m coming for you!” Esmé cried, her voice coming over the top of the filecabinets. “You’ll never escape, orphans!”The Baudelaires paused at the cabinet reading “Conch to Condy’s Fluid,” whichare a fancy seashell and a complex chemical compound, and listened as Esmé‘s heelsclattered in pursuit.“We’re lucky she’s wearing those ridiculous shoes,” Klaus said. “We can run muchfaster than she can.”“As long as she doesn’t think of taking them off,” Violet said. “She’s almost asclever as she is greedy.”“Shh!” Sunny said, and the Baudelaires listened as Esmé‘s footsteps abruptlystopped.The children huddled together as they heard Olaf’s girlfriend mutter to herself fora moment, and then the three youngsters began to hear a terrifying sequence ofsounds. There was a long, screechy creak,and then a booming crash,and then anotherlong, screechy creak,and another booming crash,and the pair of sounds continued,getting louder and louder. The youngsters looked at one another in puzzlement, andthen, just in the nick of time, the oldest Baudelaire figured out what the sound was.“She’s knocking over the file cabinets!” Violet cried, pointing over the top ofConfetti to Consecration. “They’re toppling over like dominos!”Klaus and Sunny looked where their sister was pointing and saw that she wasright. Esmé had pushed over one file cabinet, which had pushed over another, whichhad pushed over another, and now the heavy metal cabinets were crashing toward thechildren like a wave crashing on the shore. Violet grabbed her siblings and pulledthem out of the path of a falling file cabinet. With a creak and a crash, the cabinet fellto the floor, right where they had been standing. The three children breathed a sigh ofrelief, having just narrowly avoided being crushed beneath files on congruenttriangles, coniferous trees, conjugated verbs, and two hundred other topics.“I’m going to flatten you!” Esmé called, starting on another line of cabinets. “Olafand I are going to have a romantic breakfast of Baudelaire pancakes!”“Run!” Sunny cried, but her siblings needed no urging. The three children hurrieddown the rest of the C aisle, as the cabinets creaked and crashed all around them.“Where can we go?” Violet cried.“To the D aisle!” Klaus answered, but changed his mind as he saw another row ofcabinets begin to topple. “No! The E aisle!”“B?” Violet asked, finding it difficult to hear over the sounds of the cabinets.“E!” Klaus cried. “E as in Exit!” The Baudelaires ran down E as in Exit, but whenthey reached the last cabinet, the row was becoming F as in Falling File Cabinets, Gas in Go the Other Way! and H as in How in the World Are We Going to Escape?Before long, the children found themselves as far from the anteroom door as theypossibly could be. As the cabinets crashed around them, and Esmé cackled wildlyand stabbed the floor in pursuit, the three youngsters found themselves in the area ofthe Library of Records where information was deposited. As the room creaked andcrashed around them, the siblings looked first at the basket of papers, then at the bowlof paper clips, then the mouth of the chute, and finally at one another.“Violet,” Klaus said hesitantly, “do you think you can invent something out ofpaper clips and a basket that could help us get out of here?”“I don’t have to,” Violet said. “That chute will serve as an exit.”“But you won’t fit in there,” Klaus said. “I’m not even sure I will.”“You’re never going to get out of this room alive, you imbeciles!” Esmé cried,using a horrible word in her horrible voice.“We’ll have to try,” Violet said. “Sunny, go first.”“Prapil,” Sunny said doubtfully, but she went first, crawling easily into the chuteand staring out through the darkness at her siblings.“Now you, Klaus,” Violet said, and Klaus, removing his glasses so they wouldn’tbreak, followed his sister. It was a tight fit, and it took some manuevering, buteventually the middle Baudelaire worked his way through the mouth of the chute.“This won’t work,” Klaus said to Violet, peering around him. “It’ll be tough tocrawl up through the chute, the way it’s slanted. Besides, there’s no way you’ll fit.”“Then I’ll find another way,” Violet said. Her voice was calm, but Klaus andSunny could see, through the hole in the wall, that her eyes were wide with fear.“That’s out of the question,” Klaus said. “We’ll climb back out, and the three of uswill escape together.”“We can’t risk it,” Violet said. “Esmé won’t catch all of us, not if we split up. Youtwo take page thirteen and go up the chute, and I’ll get out another way. We’ll meetup in the unfinished wing.”“No!” Sunny cried.“Sunny’s right,” Klaus said. “This is what happened with the Quagmires,remember? When we left them behind, they were snatched away.”“The Quagmires are safe now,” Violet reminded him. “Don’t worry, I’ll invent asolution.”The eldest Baudelaire gave her siblings a small smile, and reached into her pocketso she could tie up her hair and put the levers and gears of her inventing mind intomotion. But there was no ribbon in her pocket. As her trembling fingers explored herempty pocket, she remembered she had used her ribbon to fool Hal with a fake loopof keys. Violet felt a quiver in her stomach as she remembered, but she had no time tofeel bad about the trick she had played. With sudden horror, she heard a creak rightbehind her, and she jumped out of the way just in time to avoid the crash. A filecabinet labeled “Linguistics to Lions” fell against the wall, blocking the mouth of thechute.“Violet!” Sunny cried. She and her brother tried to push the cabinet aside, but thestrength of a thirteen-year-old boy and his baby sister were no match against a metalcase holding files on everything from the history of language to a large carnivorousfeline found in sub-Saharan Africa and parts of India .“I’m O.K.,” Violet called back.“Not for long you’re not!” Esmé snarled, from a few aisles over.Klaus and Sunny sat in the dark chute and heard their sister’s faint voice as shecalled to them. “Leave me here!” she insisted. “I’ll meet you back in our filthy, cold,inappropriate home.”The two younger Baudelaires huddled together at the entrance of the chute, but itis useless for me to describe to you how desperate and terrified they felt. There is noreason to describe how horrible it was to hear Violet’s frantic footsteps across theLibrary of Records, or the odd, tottering ones of Esmé as she pursued the eldestBaudelaire in her stiletto heels, creakingand crashingfile cabinets with every stabbingstep. It is unnecessary to describe the cramped and difficult journey Klaus and Sunnymade up the chute, which was slanted so steeply that it felt to the two orphans likethey were crawling up a large mountain covered in ice instead of a fairly short chuteused for depositing information. It is ineffectual to describe how the two children feltwhen they finally reached the end of the chute, which was another hole, carved intothe outside wall of Heimlich Hospital , and found that Hal was right when he said itwas to be a particularly cold evening. And it is absolutely futile-a word which heremeans “useless, unnecessary, and ineffectual, because there is no reason for it”-todescribe how they felt as they sat in the half-finished section of the hospital, withdrop cloths wrapped around them to keep them warm and flashlights lit around themto keep them company, and waited for Violet to show up, because Klaus and SunnyBaudelaire were not thinking of these things.The two younger Baudelaires sat together, clutching page thirteen of theBaudelaire file, as the night grew later and later, but they were not thinking about thenoises they heard coming from the Library of Records, or about the journey up thechute or even about the icy breeze as it blew through the plastic sheets and chilled theBaudelaire bones. Klaus and Sunny were thinking about what Violet had said, whenshe saw the piece of paper they were clutching now. “I never thought I’d live to seethe day,” Violet had said, and her two siblings knew that the phrase was just anotherway of saying “I’m very surprised” or “I’m extremely flabbergasted” or “This blowsmy mind beyond belief.” But now, as the two Baudelaires waited more and moreanxiously for their sister, Klaus and Sunny began to fear that the phrase Violet usedwas more appropriate than she ever would have guessed. As the first pale rays of themorning sun began to shine on the unfinished half of the hospital, the Baudelaresgrew more and more frightened that their sister would not live to see the day.of ivy called kudzu, which makes it difficult to see what the hospital looked like whenthe Baudelaires first arrived in the V.F.D. van. The confusing maps have been gnawed offthe walls of the sagging staircases, so it is very hard to imagine how troublesome it was tofind one’s way through all of the areas of the building. And the intercom system has longsince crumbled away, with only a handful of square speakers left sitting among the ashenrubble, so it is impossible to imagine just how unnerving it was when Klaus and Sunnyheard the latest announcement from Mattathias.“Attention!” Mattathias announced. There were no intercom speakers installed inthe unfinished half of the hospital, so the two younger Baudelaires had to listen veryhard to hear the scratchy voice of their enemy coming from one of the outdoorspeakers.“Attention! Attention! This is Mattathias, the Head of Human Resources. I amcanceling the remainder of the hospital inspections. We have found what we werelooking for.” There was a pause as Mattathias moved away from the microphone, andas Klaus and Sunny listened very hard, they could hear the faint, faint noise oftriumphant, high pitched laughter coming from the Head of Human Resources.“Excuse me,” he continued, when his giggling fit was over. “To continue, pleasebe aware that two of the three Baudelaire murderers- Klaus and Sun-I mean, Klydeand Susie Baudelaire-have been spotted in the hospital. If you see any children whomyou recognize from The Daily Punctilio, please capture them and notify the police.”Mattathias stopped talking and began to giggle again, until the children heard thevoice of Esmé Squalor whispering, “Darling, you forgot to turn off the intercom.”Then there was a click, and everything was silent.“They caught her,” Klaus said. Now that the sun had risen, it wasn’t very cold inthe half-finished section of the hospital, but the middle Baudelaire shiverednonetheless. “That’s what Mattathias meant when he said that they had found whatthey were looking for.”“Danger,” Sunny said grimly.“She certainly is,” Klaus said. “We have to rescue Violet before it’s too late.”“Virm,” Sunny said, which meant “But we don’t know where she is.”“She must be somewhere in the hospital,” Klaus said, “otherwise Mattathiaswouldn’t still be here. He and Esmé are probably hoping to capture us, too.”“Ranee,” Sunny said.“And the file,” Klaus agreed, taking page thirteen out of his pocket, where he hadbeen storing it for safekeeping along with the scraps of the Quagmire notebooks.“Come on, Sunny. We’ve got to find our sister and get her out of there.”“Lindersto,” Sunny said. She meant “That’ll be tough. We’ll have to wanderaround the hospital looking for her, while other people will be wandering around thehospital, looking for us.”“I know,” Klaus said glumly. “If anyone recognizes us from The Daily Punctilio,we’ll be in jail before we can help Violet.”“Disguise?” Sunny said.“I don’t know how,” Klaus said, looking around the half-finished room. “All wehave here is some flashlights and a few dropcloths. I suppose if we wrapped thedropcloths around us and put the flashlights on top of our heads, we could try todisguise ourselves as piles of construction materials.”“Gidoost,” Sunny said, which meant “But piles of construction materials don’twander around hospitals.”“Then we’ll have to walk into the hospital without disguises,” Klaus said. “We’lljust have to be extra careful.”Sunny nodded emphatically, a word which here means “as if she thought beingextra careful was a very good plan,” and Klaus nodded emphatically back. But asthey left the half-finished wing of the hospital, the two children felt less and lessemphatic about what they were doing. Ever since that terrible day at the beach whenMr. Poe brought them news of the fire, all three Baudelaires had been extra careful allof the time. They had been extra careful when they lived with Count Olaf, and Sunnyhad still ended up dangling from a cage outside Olaf’s tower room. They had beenextra careful when they’d worked at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill, and Klaus hadstill ended up hypnotized by Dr. Orwell. And now the Baudelaires had been ascareful as they could possibly be, but the hospital had turned out to be as hostile anenvironment as anywhere the three children had ever lived. But just as Klaus andSunny entered the finished half of Heimlich Hospital , their feet moving less and lessemphatically and their hearts beating faster and faster, they heard something thatsoothed their savage breasts:“We are Volunteers Fighting Disease,And we’re cheerful all day long.If someone said that we were sad,That person would be wrong.”There, coming around the corner, were the Volunteers Fighting Disease, walkingdown the hall singing their cheerful song and carrying enormous bunches of heartshaped balloons. Klaus and Sunny looked at one another, and ran to catch up with thegroup. What better place to hide than among people who believed that no news wasgood news, and so didn’t read the newspaper?“We visit people who are sick,And try to make them smile,Even if their noses bleed,Or if they cough up bile.”To the children’s relief, the volunteers paid no attention as Klaus and Sunnyinfiltrated the group, a phrase which here means “sneaked into the middle of asinging crowd.” An especially cheerful singer seemed to be the only one whonoticed, and she immediately handed a balloon to each newcomer. Klaus and Sunnyheld the balloons in front of their faces, so that anybody passing by would see twovolunteers with shiny, helium-filled hearts, instead of two accused criminals hiding inV.F.D.“Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.”As the volunteers reached the chorus of the song, they marched into a hospitalroom in order to start giving a cheerful attitude to the patients. Inside the room, eachlying uncomfortably in a metal bed, were a man with both legs in casts and a womanwith both arms in bandages. Still singing, a man from V.F.D. handed one balloon tothe man and tied another to the woman’s cast, because she could not hold it with herbroken arms.“Excuse me,” said the man hoarsely, “could you please call a nurse for me? I wassupposed to take some painkillers this morning, but nobody has come to give them tome.”“And I’d like a glass of water,” the woman said in a weak voice, “if it’s not toomuch trouble.”“Sorry,” the bearded man replied, pausing for a moment to tune his guitar. “Wedon’t have time to do things like that. We have to visit each and every room of thehospital, so we need to move quickly.”“Besides,” another volunteer said, giving the two patients a huge grin, “a cheerfulattitude is a more effective way of fighting illness than painkillers, or a glass of water.So cheer up, and enjoy your balloon.” The volunteer consulted a list he was holding.“Next on the patient list is a man named Bernard Rieux, in room 105 of the PlagueWard. Come on, brothers and sisters.”The members of V.F.D. cheered, and continued the song as they left the room.Klaus and Sunny peered around the balloons they were holding and looked at oneanother in hope.“If we visit each and every room in the hospital,” Klaus whispered to his sister,“we’re sure to find Violet.”“Mushulm,” Sunny said, which meant “I agree, although it won’t be pleasant tosee all these sick people.”“We visit people who are ill, And try to make them laugh, Even when the doctorsays He must saw them in half.”Bernard Rieux turned out to be a man with a nasty, hacking cough that shook hisbody so much he could scarcely hold his balloon, and it seemed to the two Baudelairechildren that a good humidifier would have been a more effective way to fight this diseasethan a cheerful attitude. As the members of V.F.D. drowned out his cough with anotherverse of the song, Klaus and Sunny were tempted to run and find a humidifier and bring itback to Bernard Rieux’s room, but they knew that Violet was in much more danger thansomeone with a cough, so they stayed hidden in the group.“We sing and sing all night and day,And then we sing some more.We sing to boys with broken bonesAnd girls whose throats are sore.”The next patient on the list was Cynthia Vane, a young woman with a terribletoothache who probably would have preferred something cold and easy to eat, insteadof a heartshaped balloon, but as sore as her mouth looked, the children dared not runand find her applesauce or an ice-cream snack. They knew she might have read TheDaily Punctilio, in order to pass the hours in the hospital room, and might recognizethem if they showed their faces.“Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.”On and on the volunteers marched, and Klaus and Sunny marched with them, butwith every ho ho ho and hee hee hee their hearts sank lower and lower. The twoBaudelaires followed the members of V.F.D. up and down the staircases of thehospital, and although they saw a great number of confusing maps, intercomspeakers, and sick people, they did not catch a glimpse of their sister. They visitedRoom 201 and sang to Jonah Mapple, who was suffering from seasickness, and theygave a heart-shaped balloon to Charley Anderson in Room 714, who had injuredhimself in an accident, and they visited Clarissa Dalloway, who did not seem to haveanything wrong with her but was staring sadly out the window of Room 1308, butnowhere, in any of the rooms that the volunteers marched into, was VioletBaudelaire, who, Klaus and Sunny feared, was suffering more than any of the otherpatients.“Ceyune,” Sunny said, as the volunteers walked up yet another staircase. Shemeant something along the lines of “We’ve been wandering around the hospital allmorning, and we’re no closer to rescuing our sister,” and Klaus nodded grimly inagreement.“I know,” Klaus said, “but the members of V.F.D. are going to visit every singleperson in Heimlich Hospital . We’re sure to find Violet eventually.”“Attention! Attention!” a voice announced, and the volunteers stopped singing andgathered around the nearest intercom speaker to hear what Mattathias had to say.“Attention!” Mattathias said. “Today is a very important day in the history of thehospital. In precisely one hour, a doctor here will perform the world’s firstcranioectomy on a fourteen-year-old girl. We all hope that this very dangerousoperation is a complete success. That is all.”“Violet,” Sunny murmured to her brother.“I think so, too,” Klaus said. “And I don’t like the sound of that operation. ’Cranio’means ‘head and ‘ectomy’ is a medical term for removing something.”“Decap?” Sunny asked in a horrified whisper. She meant something like “Do youthink they’re going to cut off Violet’s head?”“I don’t know,” Klaus said with a shudder, “but we can’t wander around with thesesinging volunteers any longer. We’ve got to find her right away.”“O.K.,” a volunteer called, consulting the list. “The next patient is Emma Bovaryin Room 2611. She has food poisoning, so she needs a particularly cheerful attitude.”“Excuse me, brother,” Klaus said to the volunteer, reluctantly using the term“brother” instead of “person I hardly know.” “I was wondering if I could borrow yourcopy of the patient list.”“Of course,” the volunteer replied. “I don’t like to read all these names of sickpeople, anyway. It’s too depressing. I’d rather hold balloons.” With a cheerful smile,the volunteer handed Klaus the long list of patients, and took the heart-shapedballoon out of his hands as the bearded man began the next verse of the song.“We sing to men with measles,And to women with the flu,And if you breathe in deadly germs,We’ll probably sing to you.”With his face exposed, Klaus had to duck down behind Sunny’s balloon to look atthe list of the hospital’s patients. “There are hundreds of people on this list,” he saidto his sister, “and it’s organized by ward, not by name. We can’t read it all here in thehallway, particularly when we both have to hide behind one balloon.”“Damajat,” Sunny said, pointing down the hall. By “Damajat,” she meantsomething along the lines of “Let’s hide in that supply closet over there,” and sureenough, there was a door marked “Supply Closet” at the end of the hallway, past twodoctors who had paused to chat beside one of the confusing maps. While themembers of V.F.D. started in on the chorus of their song as they walked towardEmma Bovary’s room, Klaus and Sunny separated themselves from the volunteersand walked carefully toward the closet, holding the balloon in front of both theirfaces as best they could. Luckily, the two doctors were too busy talking about asporting event they had watched on television to notice two accused murdererssneaking down the hallway of their hospital, and by the time the volunteers weresinging“Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.”Klaus and Sunny were inside the closet.Like a church bell, a coffin, and a vat of melted chocolate, a supply closet is rarelya comfortable place to hide, and this supply closet was no exception. When they shutthe door of the closet behind them, the two younger Baudelaires found themselves ina small, cramped room lit only by one flickering lightbulb hanging from the ceiling.On one wall was a row of white medical coats hanging from hooks, and on theopposite wall was a rusty sink where one could wash one’s hands before examining apatient. The rest of the closet was full of huge cans of alphabet soup for patients’lunches, and small boxes of rubber bands, which the children could not imagine camein very handy in a hospital.“Well,” Klaus said, “it’s not comfortable, but at least nobody will find us in here.”“Pesh,” Sunny said, which meant something like “At least, until somebody needsrubber bands, alphabet soup, white medical coats, or clean hands.”“Well, let’s keep one eye on the door, to see if anyone comes in,” Klaus said, “butlet’s keep the other eye on this list. It’s very long, but now that we have a fewmoments to look it over, we should be able to spot Violet’s name.”“Right,” Sunny said. Klaus placed the list on top of a can of soup, and hurriedlybegan to flip through its pages. As he had noticed, the list of patients was notorganized alphabetically, but by ward, a word which here means “particular sectionof the hospital,” so the two children had to look through every single page, hoping tospot the name Violet Baudelaire among the typed names of sick people. But as theyglanced at the list under the heading “Sore Throat Ward,” perused the names on the“Broken Neck Ward” page, and combed through the names of all the people whowere staying in the Ward for People with Nasty Rashes, Klaus and Sunny felt as ifthey were in a Ward for People with Sinking Stomachs, because Violet’s name wasnowhere to be found. As the lightbulb flickered above them, the two Baudelaireslooked frantically at page after page of the list, but they found nothing that wouldhelp them locate their sister.“She’s not here,” Klaus said, putting down the last page of “Pneumonia Ward.”“Violet’s name is nowhere on the list. How are we going to find her in this hugehospital, if we can’t figure out what ward she’s in?”“Alias,” Sunny said, which meant “Maybe she’s listed under a different name.”“That’s true,” Klaus said, looking at the list again. “After all, Mattathias’s realname is Count Olaf. Maybe he made up a new name for Violet, so we couldn’t rescueher. But which person is really Violet? She could be anyone from Mikhail Bulgakovto Haruki Murakami. What are we going to do? Somewhere in this hospital, they’regetting ready to perform a completely unnecessary operation on our sister, and we-”Klaus was interrupted by the sound of crackly laughter, coming from over theBaudelaires’ heads. The two children looked up and saw that a square intercomspeaker had been installed on the ceiling. “Attention!” said Mattathias, when he wasdone laughing. “Dr. Flacutono, please report to the Surgical Ward. Dr. Flacutono,please report to the Surgical Ward to prepare for the cranioectomy.”“Flacutono!” Sunny repeated.“I recognize that name, too,” Klaus said. “That’s the false name used by CountOlaf’s associate when we lived in Paltryville.”“Tiofreck!” Sunny said frantically. She meant “Violet’s in grave danger-we have tofind her immediately,” but Klaus did not answer. Behind his glasses, his eyes werehalf closed, as they often were when he was trying to remember something he hadread. “Flacutono,” he muttered quietly. “Flac-u-to-no.” Then he reached into hispocket, where he was keeping all the important papers the Baudelaires had gathered.“Al Funcoot,” he said, and took out one of the pages of the Quagmire notebooks. Itwas the page that had written on it the words “Ana Gram”-a phrase that had not madeany sense to the Baudelaires when they had looked at the pages together. Klauslooked at the Quagmire page, and then at the list of patients, and then at the pageagain. Then he looked at Sunny, and she could see his eyes grow wide behind hisglasses, the way they always did when he had read something very difficult, andunderstood it at last.“I think I know how to find Violet,” Klaus said slowly, “but we’ll need your teeth,Sunny.”“Ready,” Sunny said, opening her mouth.Klaus smiled, and pointed to the stack of cans in the supply closet. “Open one ofthose cans of alphabet soup,” he said, “and hurry.”“Recazier?” Sunny asked dumbfoundedly. The word “dumbfoundedly” heremeans “wondering why in the world Klaus wanted to eat alphabet soup at a time likethis,” and “Recazier?” here means “Klaus, why in the world do you want to eatalphabet soup at a time like this?”“We’re not going to eat it,” Klaus said, handing Sunny one of the cans. “We’regoing to pour just about all of it down the sink.”“Pietrisycamollaviadelrechiotemexity,” Sunny said, which you will probably recallmeans something along the lines of “I must admit I don’t have the faintest idea ofwhat is going on.” Sunny had now said this particular thing three times over thecourse of her life, and she was beginning to wonder if this was something she wasonly going to say more and more as she grew older.“The last time you said that,” Klaus said with a smile, “the three of us were tryingto figure out the pages the Quagmires left behind.” He held out a page for Sunny tosee, and then pointed to the words “Ana Gram.” “We thought this was someone’sname,” Klaus said, “but it’s really a kind of code. An anagram is when you move theletters around in one or more words to make another word or words.”“Still pietrisycamollaviadelrechiotemexity,” Sunny said with a sigh.“I’ll give you an example,” Klaus said. “It’s the example the Quagmires found.Look, on the same page they wrote ‘Al Funcoot.’ That’s the name of the man whowrote The Marvelous Marriage, that dreadful play Count Olaf forced us to participatein.”“Yuck,” Sunny said, which meant “Don’t remind me.”“But look,” Klaus said. “‘Al Funcoot’ has all the same letters as ‘Count Olaf.’ Olafjust rearranged the letters in his name to hide the fact that he really wrote the playhimself. You see?”“Phromein,” Sunny said, which meant something like “I think I understand, butit’s difficult for someone as young as myself.”“It’s difficult for me, too,” Klaus said. “That’s why the alphabet soup will come inhandy. Count Olaf uses anagrams when he wants to hide something, and right nowhe’s hiding our sister. I bet she’s somewhere on this list, but her name’s beenscrambled up. The soup is going to help unscramble her.”“But how?” Sunny asked.“It’s difficult to figure out anagrams if you can’t move the letters around,” Klaussaid. “Normally, alphabet blocks or lettered tiles would be perfect, but alphabetnoodles will do in a pinch. Now, hurry and open a can of soup.” Sunny grinned,showing all of her sharp sharp teeth, and then swung her head down onto the can ofsoup, remembering the day she had learned to open cans all by herself. It was not thatlong ago, although it felt like it was in the very distant past, because it was before theBaudelaire mansion burned down, when the entire family was happy and together. Itwas the Baudelaires’ mother’s birthday, and she was sleeping late while everyonebaked a cake for her. Violet was beating the eggs, butter, and sugar with a mixingdevice she had invented herself. Klaus was sifting the flour with the cinnamon,pausing every few minutes to wipe his glasses. And the Baudelaires’ father wasmaking his famous cream-cheese frosting, which would be spread thickly on top ofthe cake. All was going well until the electric can opener broke, and Violet didn’thave the proper tools to fix it. The Baudelaires’ father desperately needed to open acan of condensed milk to make his frosting, and for a moment it looked like the cakewas going to be ruined. But Sunny-who had been playing quietly on the floor thiswhole time- said her first word, “Bite,” and bit down on the can, poking four smallholes so the sweet, thick milk could pour out. The Baudelaires laughed andapplauded, and the children’s mother came downstairs, and from then on they usedSunny whenever they needed to open a can of anything, except for beets. Now, as theyoungest Baudelaire bit along the edge of the can of alphabet soup, she wondered ifone of her parents had really survived the fire, and if she dared get her hopes up justbecause of one sentence on page thirteen of the Snicket file. Sunny wondered if theBaudelaire family would ever be together again, laughing and clapping and workingtogether to make something sweet and delicious.“All done,” Sunny said finally.“Good work, Sunny,” Klaus said. “Now, let’s try to find alphabet noodles that spellViolet’s name.”“V?” Sunny asked.“That’s right,” Klaus said. “V- I-O- L-E- T- B-A-U- D-E-L-A-I-R-E.”The two younger Baudelaires reached into the can of soup and sorted through thediced carrots, chopped celery, blanched potatoes, roasted peppers, and steamed peas,which were all in a rich and creamy broth made from a secret blend of herbs andspices, to find the noodles they needed. The soup was cold from sitting in the closetfor months and months, and occasionally they would find the right letter only to haveit fall into pieces, or slip from their clammy fingers back into the can, but before toolong they had found a V, an I, an O, an L, an E, a T, a B, an A, a U, a D, another E,another L, another A, another I, an R, and a bit of carrot they decided to use when athird E was not to be found.“Now,” Klaus said, after they laid all of the noodles on top of another can so theycould move them around. “Let’s take another look at the list of patients. Mattathiasannounced that the operation would take place in the Surgical Ward, so let’s look inthat section of the list, and try to see if any names look like good bets.”Sunny poured the rest of soup into the sink and nodded in agreement, and Klaushurriedly found the Surgical Ward section of the list and read the names of thepatients:LISA N. LOOTNDAYALBERT E. DEVILOEIALINDA RHALDEENADA O. ÜBERVILLETED VALIANTBRUELAURA V. BLEEDIOTIEMONTY KENSICLENED H. RIRGERERIQ BLUTHETTSRUTH DËRCROUMPAL BRISNOWCARRIE E. ABELABUDITE“Goodness!” Klaus said. “Every single patient on the list has a name that lookslike an anagram. How in the world can we sort through all these names before it’s toolate?”“V!” Sunny said.“You’re right,” Klaus said. “Any name that doesn’t have a V in it can’t be ananagram of ‘Violet Baudelaire.’ We could cross those off the list-if we had a pen, thatis.”Sunny reached thoughtfully into one of the white medical coats, wondering whatdoctors might keep in their pockets. She found a surgical mask, which is perfect forcovering one’s face, and a pair of rubber gloves, that are perfect for protecting one’shands, and at the very bottom of the pocket she found a ballpoint pen, which isperfect for crossing out names which aren’t the anagrams you’re looking for. With agrin, Sunny handed the pen to Klaus, who quickly crossed out the names without Vs.Now the list looked like this:LISA N. LOOTNDAYALBERT E. DEVILOEIALINDA RHALDEENADA O. ÜUBERVILLETED VALIANTBRUELAURA V. BLEEDIOTIEMONTY KENSICLENED H. RIRGERERIQ BLUTHETTSRUTH DËRCROUMPAL BRISNOWCARRIE E. ABELABUDITE“That makes it much easier,” Klaus said. “Now, let’s move around the letters inViolet’s name and see if we can spell out ‘Albert E. Deviloeia.’”Working carefully to avoid breaking them, Klaus began to move the noodles heand Sunny had taken out of the soup, and soon learned that ‘Albert E. Deviloeia’ and“Violet Baudelaire” were not quite anagrams. They were close, but they did not havethe exact same letters in their names.“Albert E. Deviloeia must be an actual sick person,” Klaus said in disappointment.“Let’s try to spell out ‘Ada O. Übervillet.’”Once again, the supply closet was filled with the sound of shifting noodles, a faintand damp sound that made the children think of something slimy emerging from aswamp. It was, however, a far nicer sound than the one that interrupted their anagramdecoding.“Attention! Attention!” Mattathias’s voice sounded particularly snide as it calledfor attention from the square speaker over the Baudelaires’ heads. “The SurgicalWard will now be closed for the cranioectomy. Only Dr. Flacutono and his associateswill be allowed into the ward until the patient is dead-I mean, until the operation isover. That is all.”“Velocity!” Sunny shrieked.“I know we have to hurry!” Klaus cried. “I’m moving these noodles as quickly as Ican! Ada O. Übervillet isn’t right, either!” He turned to the list of patients again tosee who was next, and accidentally hit a noodle with his elbow, knocking it to thefloor with a moist splat. Sunny picked it up for him, but the fall had split it into twopieces. Instead of an O, the Baudelaires now had a pair of parentheses.“That’s O.K.,” Klaus said hurriedly. “The next name on the list is Ed Valiantbrue,which doesn’t have an O in it anyway.”“O!” Sunny shrieked.“O!” Klaus agreed.“O!” Sunny insisted.“Oh!” Klaus cried. “I see what you mean! If it doesn’t have an O in it, it can’t bean anagram of Violet Baudelaire. That only leaves one name on the list: Laura V.Bleediotie. That must be the one we’re looking for.”“Check!” Sunny said, and held her breath as Klaus moved the noodles around. In afew seconds, the name of the eldest Baudelaire sister had been transformed intoLaura V. Bleediotie, except for the O, which Sunny still held in pieces in her tiny fist,and the last E, which was still a piece of carrot.“It’s her, all right,” Klaus said, with a grin of triumph. “We’ve found Violet.”“Asklu,” Sunny said, which meant “We never would have found her if you hadn’tfigured out that Olaf was using anagrams.”“It was really the Quagmire triplets who figured it out,” Klaus said, holding up thenotebook page, “and it was you who opened the cans of soup, which made it mucheasier. But before we congratulate ourselves, let’s rescue our sister.” Klaus took alook at the list of patients. “We’ll find ‘Laura V. Bleediotie’ in Room 922 of theSurgical Ward.”“Gwito,” Sunny pointed out, which meant “But Mattathias closed the SurgicalWard.”“Then we’ll have to open it,” Klaus said grimly, and took a good look around thesupply closet. “Let’s put on those white medical coats,” he said. “Maybe if we looklike doctors, we can get into the ward. We can use these surgical masks in the pocketto hide our faces-just like Olaf’s associate did at the lumbermill.”“Quagmire,” Sunny said doubtfully, which meant “When the Quagmires useddisguises, they didn’t fool Olaf.”“But when Olaf used disguises,” Klaus said, “he fooled everyone.”“Us,” Sunny said.“Except us,” Klaus agreed, “but we don’t have to fool ourselves.”“True,” Sunny said, and reached for two white coats. Because most doctors areadults, the white coats were far too big for the children, who were reminded of theenormous pinstripe suits Esmé Squalor had purchased for them when she had beentheir guardian. Klaus helped Sunny roll up the sleeves of her coat, and Sunny helpedKlaus tie his mask around his face, and in a few moments the children were finishedputting on their disguises.“Let’s go,” Klaus said, and put his hand on the door of the supply closet. But hedid not open it. Instead he turned back to his sister, and the two Baudelaires looked ateach other. Even though the siblings were wearing white coats, and had surgicalmasks on their faces, they did not look like doctors. They looked like two children inwhite coats with surgical masks on their faces. Their disguises looked spurious-aword which here means “nothing at all like a real doctor”-and yet they were no morespurious than the disguises that Olaf had been using since his first attempt to steal theBaudelaire fortune. Klaus and Sunny looked at one another and hoped that Olaf’smethods would work for them, and help them steal their sister, and without anotherword, they opened the door and stepped out of the supply closet.“Douth?” Sunny asked, which meant “But how are we going to find the SurgicalWard, when the maps of this hospital are so confusing?”“We’ll have to find someone who is going there,” Klaus said. “Look for somebodywho looks like they’re on their way to the Surgical Ward.”“Silata,” Sunny said. She meant something along the lines of “But there are somany people here,” and she was right. Although the Volunteers Fighting Diseasewere nowhere to be seen, the hallways of Heimlich Hospital were full of people. Ahospital needs many different people and many different types of equipment in orderto work properly, and as Klaus and Sunny tried to find the Surgical Ward they saw allsorts of hospital employees and devices hurrying through the halls. There werephysicians carrying stethoscopes, hurrying to listen to people’s heartbeats, and therewere obstetricians carrying babies, hurrying to deliver people’s children. There wereradiologists carrying X-ray machines, hurrying to view people’s insides, and therewere optic surgeons carrying laser-driven technology hurrying to get inside people’sviews. There were nurses carrying hypodermic needles, hurrying to give peopleshots, and there were administrators carrying clipboards, hurrying to catch up onimportant paperwork. But no matter where the Baudelaires looked, they couldn’t seeanyone who seemed to be hurrying to the Surgical Ward.“I don’t see any surgeons,” Klaus said in desperation.“Peipix,” Sunny said, which meant “Me neither.”“Out of my way, everybody!” demanded a voice at the end of the hallway. “I’m asurgical assistant, carrying equipment for Dr. Flacutono!”The other employees of the hospital stopped and cleared the way for the personwho had spoken, a tall person dressed in a white lab coat and a surgical mask whowas coming down the hallway in odd, tottering steps.“I’ve got to get to the Surgical Ward right away!” the person called, walking pastthe Baudelaires without even glancing at them. But Klaus and Sunny glanced at thisperson. They saw, beneath the bottom hem of the white coat, the pair of shoes withstiletto heels that this person was wearing, and they saw the handbag in the shape ofan eye that the person was holding in one hand. The children saw the black veil of theperson’s hat, which was hanging in front of the surgical mask, and they saw blotchesof lipstick, which had soaked through from the person’s lips and were staining thebottom of the mask. The person, of course, was pretending to be a surgical assistant,and she was carrying something that was pretending to be a piece of surgicalequipment, but the children did not need more than a glance to see through both ofthese spurious disguises. As they watched the person tottering down the hallway, thetwo Baudelaires knew at once that she was really Esmé Squalor, the villainousgirlfriend of Count Olaf. And as they looked at the thing she was carrying, glinting inthe light of the hospital hallway, the two Baudelaires knew that it was nothing morethan a large rusty knife, with a long row of jagged teeth, just perfect for acranioectomy.In this case, however, the word “lepidopterist” means “a man who was beingpursued by angry government officials,” and on the night I am telling you about theywere right on his heels. Mr. Sirin looked back to see how close they were-fourofficers in their brightpink uniforms, with small flashlights in their left hands andlarge nets in their right-and realized that in a moment they would catch up, and arresthim and his six favorite butterflies, which were frantically flapping alongside him.Mr. Sirin did not care much if he was captured-he had been in prison four and a halftimes over the course of his long and complicated life-but he cared very much aboutthe butterflies. He realized that these six delicate insects would undoubtedly perish inbug prison, where poisonous spiders, stinging bees, and other criminals would ripthem to shreds. So, as the secret police closed in, Mr. Sirin opened his mouth as wideas he could and swallowed all six butterflies whole, quickly placing them in the darkbut safe confines of his empty stomach. It was not a pleasant feeling to have these sixinsects living inside him, but Mr. Sirin kept them there for three years, eating only thelightest foods served in prison so as not to crush the insects with a clump of broccolior a baked potato. When his prison sentence was over, Mr. Sirin burped up thegrateful butterflies and resumed his lepidoptery work in a community that was muchmore friendly to scientists and their specimens. I am telling you this story not just toreveal the courage and imagination of one of my dearest friends, but to help youimagine how Klaus and Sunny felt as they watched Esmé Squalor, disguised as anassociate of Dr. Flacutono, walk down the hallway of Heimlich Hospital carrying thelong, rusty knife disguised as a surgical tool to be used on Violet. The two youngstersrealized that their only chance of finding the Surgical Ward and rescuing their sisterwas to try and fool this greedy and stiletto heeled villain, but as they approached her,like Mr. Sirin during his fifth and final prison sentence, the two Baudelaires felt theunpleasant fluttering of butterflies in their stomachs.“Excuse me, ma’am,” Klaus said, trying to sound less like a thirteen-year-old boyand more like someone who had graduated from medical school. “Did you say youwere an associate of Dr. Flacutono?”“If you’re someone with a hearing problem,” Esmé said rudely, “don’t bother me.Go to the Ear Ward.”“I’m not someone with a hearing problem,” Klaus said. “This woman and I areassociates of Dr. Flacutono.”Esmé stopped in the middle of stabbing the floor, and stared down at the twosiblings. Klaus and Sunny could see her eyes shining behind the veil of herfashionable hat as she regarded the children before replying.“I was just wondering where you were,” she said. “Come along with me, and I’lltake you to the patient.”“Patsy,” Sunny said.“What she is saying,” Klaus said quickly, “is that we’re very concerned aboutLaura V. Bleediotie.”“Well, you won’t be concerned for long,” Esmé replied, leading the childrenaround a corner to another hallway. “Here, you carry the knife.”The evil girlfriend handed Klaus the rusty blade, and leaned in closely to talk withhim. “I’m glad you two are here,” she whispered. “The brat’s little brother and sisterhaven’t been captured yet, and we still don’t have the file on the Snicket fires. Theauthorities removed it for their investigation. The boss says we might have to torchthe place.”“Torch?” Sunny asked.“Mattathias will take care of that part,” Esmé said, looking around the hallway tomake sure no one could hear them. “All you have to do is assist with the surgery.Let’s hurry up.”Esmé walked up a stairway as fast as her shoes could carry her, and the childrenfollowed nervously behind her, Klaus holding the rusty, jagged knife. With everydoor they opened, every hallway they walked down, and every staircase theyascended, the youngsters were afraid that at any moment Esmé would see throughtheir disguises and realize who they were. But the greedy woman was too busypausing to yank the blades of the stiletto heels out of the floor to notice that the twoadditional associates of Dr. Flacutono bore a very strong resemblance to the childrenshe was trying to capture. Finally, Esmé led the Baudelaires to a door marked“Surgical Ward,” which was being guarded by someone the children recognized atonce. The guard was wearing a coat which read “Heimlich Hospital ” and a cap thathad the word “GUARD” printed on it in big black print, but Klaus and Sunny couldsee that this was another spurious disguise. The siblings had seen this person atDamocles Dock, when poor Aunt Josephine had been their guardian, and they’d hadto cook for this person when they’d been living with Count Olaf. The spurious guardwas an enormous person who looked like neither a man nor a woman, and who hadbeen assisting Count Olaf with his nefarious schemes for as long as the Baudelaireshad been escaping from them. The person looked at the children, and the childrenlook back at him or her, certain that they would be recognized. But Olaf’s assistantmerely nodded and opened the door.A Series of Unfortunate Events 8 - TheHostile Hospital“They’ve already anesthetized the bratty orphan,” Esmé said, “so you ladiesmerely need to go to her room and bring her to the operating theater. I’m going to tryto find that sniveling bookworm and that stupid baby with the oversized teeth.Mattathias says I get to choose which one to keep alive in order to force Mr. Poe togive us the fortune, and which one I get to rip to shreds.”“Good,” Klaus said, trying to sound fierce and villainous. “I’m so tired of chasingthose kids around.”“Me, too,” Esmé said, and the enormous assistant nodded in agreement. “But I’msure this will be the last time. Once we’ve destroyed the file, nobody can accuse us ofany crimes, and once we murder the orphans, the fortune will be ours.”The villainous woman paused and looked around her to make sure no one waslistening, and then, satisfied that no one could hear her, she laughed wildly intriumph. The enormous assistant laughed, too, an odd laugh that sounded like asqueal and a howl at the same time, and the two Baudelaire youngsters tilted backtheir masked faces and made noises as if they were laughing, too, although theirlaughter was as spurious as their disguises. Klaus and Sunny felt more like being sickthan laughing as they pretended to be as greedy and evil as Count Olaf and histroupe. It had never occurred to the children how these terrible people acted whenthey didn’t have to pretend to be nice, and the two siblings were horrified to hear allthe bloodthirsty things Esmé had said. Watching Esmé and the enormous assistantlaugh together made the butterflies in the Baudelaire stomachs flutter all the more,and the youngsters were relieved when Esmé finally stopped laughing, and usheredthe children into the Surgical Ward.“I’ll leave you ladies in the hands of our associates,” she said, and the Baudelairesimmediately saw with horror what she meant. Esmé shut the door behind them, andthe children found themselves facing two more of Count Olaf’s wicked associates.“Well, hello there,” the first one said in a sinister voice, pointing at the twochildren with an odd-looking hand. One of the fingers was curved at an odd anglewhile the others hung limp, like socks hung out to dry, and Klaus and Sunny couldsee at once that this was the associate of Olaf who had hooks instead of hands,wearing rubber gloves to hide his unusual and dangerous appendages. Behind himwas a man whose hands were not as familiar, but Klaus and Sunny recognized himjust as easily, due to the hideous wig he was wearing on his head. The wig was solimp, white, and curly that it looked like a heap of dead worms, which is not the sortof wig one forgets. The children had certainly not forgotten it from when they hadbeen living in Paltryville, and realized at once that this person was the bald man withthe long nose who had been assisting Count Olaf since the Baudelaires’ troublesbegan. The hook-handed man and the bald man with the long nose were among thenastiest members of Olaf’s troupe, but unlike the majority of nasty people of thisearth, they were also quite clever, and the two young siblings felt the butterfly feelingin their stomachs increase exponentially-a phrase which here means “get much, muchworse”-as they waited to see if these two associates were clever enough to seethrough the children’s disguises.“I can see through your disguise,” the hook-handed man continued, and placed oneof his spurious hands on Klaus’s shoulder.“Me, too,” the bald man said, “but I don’t think anyone else will. I don’t knowhow you ladies managed to do it, but you look much shorter in those white coats.”“And your faces don’t look as pale in those surgical masks,” the hook-handed managreed. “These are the best disguises Olaf-I mean Mattathias-has ever cooked up.”“We don’t have time for all this talking,” Klaus said, hoping that the associateswouldn’t recognize his voice, either. “We’ve got to get to Room 922 right away.”“You’re right, of course,” the hook-handed man said. “Follow us.”The two associates began walking down the hallway of the Surgical Ward as Klausand Sunny looked at one another in relief.“Gwit,” Sunny murmured, which meant “They didn’t recognize us either.”“I know,” Klaus replied in a whisper. “They think we’re the two powder-facedwomen, disguised as associates of Dr. Flacutono, instead of two children disguised asthe two powder-faced women disguised as associates of Dr. Flacutono.”“Stop all that whispering about disguises,” the bald man said. “If anyone hearsyou, it’ll be the end of us.”“Instead of the end of Laura V. Bleediotie,” the hook-handed man said with asneer. “I’ve been waiting to get hooks on her since she escaped from marryingMattathias.”“Trapped,” Sunny said, sneering as best she could.“Trapped is right,” the bald man said. “I already gave her the anesthetic, so she’sunconscious. All we have to do is lead her to the operating theater, and you can sawher head off.”“I still don’t understand why we have to murder her in front of all those doctors,”the hook-handed man said.“So it can look like an accident, you idiot,” the bald man snarled in reply.“I’m not an idiot,” the hook-handed man said, stopping to glare at his fellowassociate. “I’m physically handicapped.”“Just because you’re physically handicapped doesn’t mean you’re mentallyclever,” the bald man said.“And just because you’re wearing an ugly wig,” the hook-handed man said,“doesn’t mean you can insult me.”“Stop all this arguing!” Klaus said. “The sooner we can operate on Laura V.Bleediotie, the sooner we’ll all be rich.”“Yes!” Sunny said.The two criminals looked down at the Baudelaires, and then nodded at one anothersheepishly. “The ladies are right,” the hook-handed man said. “We shouldn’t behaveunprofessionally, just because it’s been a very stressful time at work.”“I know,” the bald man said with a sigh. “It seems like we’ve been following thesethree orphans forever, only to have them slip out of our grasp at the last minute. Let’sjust focus on getting the job done, and work out our personal problems later. Well,here we are.”The four disguised people had reached the end of a hallway and were standing infront of a door marked “Room 922,” with the name “Laura V. Bleediotie” scrawledon a piece of paper and taped beneath. The bald man took a key out of the pocket inhis medical coat, and unlocked the door with a triumphant grin. “Here she is,” hesaid. “Our little sleeping beauty.”The door opened with a long, whiny creak, and the children stepped inside theroom, which was square and small and had heavy shades over the windows, makingit quite dark inside. But even in the dim light the children could see their sister, andthey almost gasped at how dreadful she looked.When the bald associate had mentioned a sleeping beauty, he was referring to afairy tale that you have probably heard one thousand times. Like all fairy tales, thestory of Sleeping Beauty begins with “Once upon a time,” and continues with afoolish young princess who makes a witch very angry, and then takes a nap until herboyfriend wakes her up with a kiss and insists on getting married, at which point thestory ends with the phrase “happily ever after.” The story is usually illustrated withfancy drawings of the napping princess, who always looks very glamorous andelegant, with her hair neatly combed and a long silk gown keeping her comfortable asshe snores away for years and years. But when Klaus and Sunny saw Violet in Room922, it looked nothing like a fairy tale.The eldest Baudelaire was lying on a gurney, which is a metal bed with wheels,used in hospitals to move patients around. This particular gurney was as rusty as theknife Klaus was holding, and its sheets were ripped and soiled. Olaf’s associates hadput her into a white gown as filthy as the sheets, and had twisted her legs togetherlike vines. Her hair had been messily thrown over her eyes so that no one wouldrecognize her face from The Daily Punctilio, and her arms hung loosely from herbody, one of them almost touching the floor of the room with one limp finger. Herface was pale, as pale and empty as the surface of the moon, and her mouth was openslightly in a vacant frown, as if she were dreaming of being pricked with a pin. Violetlooked like she had dropped onto the gurney from a great height, and if it were notfor the slow and steady rise of her chest as she breathed, it would have looked likeshe had not survived the fall. Klaus and Sunny looked at her in horrified silence,trying not to cry as they gazed at their helpless sister.“She’s a pretty one,” the hook-handed man said, “even when she’s unconscious.”“She’s clever, too,” the bald man said, “although her clever little brain won’t doher any good when her head has been sawed off.”“Let’s hurry up and go to the operating theater,” the hook-handed man said,beginning to move the gurney out of the room. “Mattathias said the anesthetic wouldlast for only a little while, so we’d best start the cranioectomy.”“I wouldn’t mind if she woke up in the middle of it,” the bald man said with agiggle, “but I suppose that would ruin the plan. You ladies take the head end. I don’tlike to look at her when she’s frowning like that.”“And don’t forget the knife,” the hook-handed man said. “Dr. Flacutono and I willbe supervising, but you two will actually perform the operation.”The two children nodded, afraid that if they tried to speak, the two henchmenwould hear how anxious they were and become suspicious. In silence they took theirplaces at the gurney where their sister lay without moving. The Baudelaires wantedto gently shake her by the shoulders, or whisper in her ear, or even just brush the hairaway from her eyes-anything at all to help their unconscious sibling. But the twoyoungsters knew that any affectionate gesture would give away their disguise, so theyjust walked alongside the gurney, clutching the rusty knife, as the two men led theway out of Room 922 and through the halls of the Surgical Ward. With every step,Klaus and Sunny watched their sister carefully, hoping for a sign that the anesthesiawas wearing off, but Violet’s face remained as still and blank as the sheet of paper onwhich I am printing this story.Although her siblings preferred to think about her inventing abilities andconversational skills rather than her physical appearance, it was true, as the hookhanded man had said, that Violet was a pretty one, and if her hair had been neatlycombed, instead of all tangled up, and she had been dressed in something elegant andglamorous, instead of a stained gown, she might indeed have looked like anillustration from “Sleeping Beauty.” But the two younger Baudelaires did not feellike characters in a fairy tale. The unfortunate events in their lives had not begun with“Once upon a time,” but with the terrible fire that had destroyed their home, and asOlaf’s associates led them to a square metal door at the end of the hallway, Klaus andSunny feared that their lives would not end like a fairy tale either. The label on thedoor read “Operating Theater,” and as the hook-handed man opened it with onecurved glove, the two children could not imagine that their story would end with“happily ever after.”C H A P T E RElevenOperating theaters are not nearly as popular as dramatic theaters, musical theaters,and movie theaters, and it is easy to see why. A dramatic theater is a large, dark roomin which actors perform a play, and if you are in the audience, you can enjoy yourselfby listening to the dialog and looking at the costumes. A musical theater is a large,dark room in which musicians perform a symphony, and if you are in the audience,you can enjoy yourself by listening to the melodies and watching the conductor wavehis little stick around. And a movie theater is a large, dark room in which aprojectionist shows a film, and if you are in the audience, you can enjoy yourself byeating popcorn and gossiping about movie stars. But an operating theater is a large,dark room in which doctors perform medical procedures, and if you are in theaudience, the best thing to do is to leave at once, because there is never anything ondisplay in an operating theater but pain, suffering, and discomfort, and for this reasonmost operating theaters have been closed down or have been turned into restaurants.I’m sorry to say, however, that the operating theater at Heimlich Hospital was stillquite popular at the time this story takes place. As Klaus and Sunny followed Olaf’stwo disguised associates through the square metal door, they saw that the large, darkroom was filled with people.There were rows of doctors in white coats who were clearly eager to see a newoperation being performed. There were clusters of nurses sitting together andwhispering with excitement about the world’s first cranioectomy. There was a largegroup of Volunteers Fighting Disease who seemed ready to burst into song if needed.And there were a great many people who looked like they had simply walked over tothe operating theater to see what was playing. The four disguised people wheeled thegurney onto a small bare stage, lit by a chandelier that was hanging from the ceiling,and as soon as the light of the chandelier fell on Klaus and Sunny’s unconscioussister, all of the audience members burst into cheers and applause. The roar from thecrowd only made Klaus and Sunny even more anxious, but Olaf’s two associatesstopped moving the gurney, raised their arms, and bowed several times.“Thank you very much!” the hook-handed man cried. “Doctors, nurses, VolunteersFighting Disease, reporters from The Daily Punctilio,distinguished guests, andregular people, welcome to the operating theater at Heimlich Hospital . I am Dr. O.Lucafont, and I will be your medical host for today’s performance.”“Hooray for Dr. Lucafont!” a doctor cried, as the crowd burst into applause again,and the hook-handed man raised his rubber-gloved hands and took another bow.“And I am Dr. Flacutono,” the bald man announced, looking a bit jealous of all theapplause the hook-handed man was getting. “I am the surgeon who invented thecranioectomy, and I am thrilled to operate today in front of all you wonderful andattractive people.”“Hooray for Dr. Flacutono!” a nurse shouted, and the crowd applauded again.Some of the reporters even whistled as the bald man bowed deeply, using one hand tohold his curly wig on his head.“The surgeon is right!” the hook-handed man said. “You are wonderful andattractive, all of you! Go on, give yourselves a big hand!”“Hooray for us!” a volunteer cried, and the audience applauded another time. Thetwo Baudelaires looked at their older sister, hoping that the noise of the crowd wouldwake her up, but Violet did not move.“Now, the two lovely ladies you see are two associates of mine named Dr. Tocunaand Nurse Flo,” the bald man continued. “Why don’t you give them the samewonderful welcome you gave us?”Klaus and Sunny half expected someone in the crowd to shout, “They aren’tmedical associates! They’re those two children wanted for murder!” but instead thecrowd merely cheered once more, and the two children found themselves wavingmiserably at the members of the audience. Although the youngsters were relievedthat they hadn’t been recognized, the butterflies in their stomachs only got worse aseveryone in the operating theater grew more and more eager for the operation tobegin.“And now that you’ve met all of our fantastic performers,” the hook-handed mansaid, “let the show begin. Dr. Flacutono, are you ready to begin?”“I sure am,” the bald man said. “Now, ladies and gentlemen, as I’m sure you know,a cranioectomy is a procedure in which the patient’s head is removed. Scientists havediscovered that many health problems are rooted in the brain, so that the best thing todo with a sick patient is remove it. However, a cranioectomy is as dangerous as it isnecessary. There is a chance that Laura V. Bleediotie might die while the operation isbeing performed, but sometimes one must risk accidents in order to cure illness.”“A patient’s death would certainly be a terrible accident, Dr. Flacutono,” thehookhanded man said.“It sure would, Dr. O. Lucafont,” the bald man agreed. “That’s why I’m going tohave my associates perform the surgery, while I supervise. Dr. Tocuna and Nurse Flo,you may begin.”The crowd applauded once more, and Olaf’s associates bowed and blew kisses toeach corner of the operating theater as the two children looked at one another inhorror.“What can we do?” Klaus murmured to his sister, looking out at the crowd. “We’resurrounded by people who expect us to saw Violet’s head off.”Sunny looked at Violet, still unconscious on the gurney, and then at her brother,who was holding the long, rusty knife Esmé had given him. “Stall,” she said. Theword “stall” has two meanings, but as with most words with two meanings, you canfigure out which meaning is being used by looking at the situation. The word “stall,”for example, can refer to a place where horses are kept, but Klaus knew at once thatSunny meant something more along the lines of “We’ll try to postpone the operationas long as we can, Klaus,” and he nodded silently in agreement. The middleBaudelaire took a deep breath and closed his eyes, trying to think of something thatcould help him postpone the cranioectomy, and all at once he thought of somethinghe had read.When you read as many books as Klaus Baudelaire, you are going to learn a greatdeal of information that might not become useful for a long time. You might read abook that would teach you all about the exploration of outer space, even if you do notbecome an astronaut until you are eighty years old. You might read a book about howto perform tricks on ice skates, and then not be forced to perform these tricks for afew weeks. You might read a book on how to have a successful marriage, when theonly woman you will ever love has married someone else and then perished oneterrible afternoon. But although Klaus had read books on outer-space exploration,ice-skating tricks, and good marriage methods, and not yet found much use for thisinformation, he had learned a great deal of information that was about to becomevery useful indeed.“Before I make the first incision,” Klaus said, using a fancy word for “cut” inorder to sound more like a medical professional, “I think Nurse Flo and I should talka little bit about the equipment we’re using.”Sunny looked at her brother quizzically. “Knife?” she asked.“That’s right,” Klaus said. “It’s a knife, and-”“We all know it’s a knife, Dr. Tocuna,” the hook-handed man said, smiling at theaudience, as the bald man leaned in to whisper to Klaus.“What are you doing?” he hissed. “Just saw off the brat’s head and we’ll be done.”“A real doctor would never perform a new operation without explainingeverything,” Klaus whispered back. “We have to keep talking, or we’ll never foolthem.”Olaf’s associates looked at Klaus and Sunny for a moment, and the twoBaudelaires got ready to run, dragging Violet’s gurney with them, if they wererecognized at last. But after a moment’s hesitation, the two disguised men looked ateach other and nodded.“I suppose you’re right,” the hook-handed man said, and then turned to theaudience. “Sorry for the delay, folks. As you know, we’re real doctors, so that’s whywe’re explaining everything. Carry on, Dr. Tocuna.”“The cranioectomy will be performed with a knife,” Klaus said, “which is theoldest surgical tool in the world.” He was remembering the section on knives in AComplete History of Surgical Tools, which he had read when he was eleven. “Earlyknives have been found in Egyptian tombs and Mayan temples, where they were usedfor ceremonial purposes, and mostly fashioned out of stone. Gradually bronze andiron became the essential materials in knives, although some cultures fashioned themout of the incisors of slain animals.”“Teeth,” Sunny explained.“There are a number of different types of knives,” Klaus continued, “including thepocket-knife, the penknife, and the drawing knife, but the one required for thiscranioectomy is a Bowie knife, named after Colonel James Bowie, who lived inTexas .”“Wasn’t that a magnificient explanation, ladies and gentlemen?” the hook-handedman said.“It sure was,” one of the reporters agreed. She was a woman wearing a gray suitand chewing gum as she spoke into a small microphone. “I can see the headline now:‘DOCTOR AND NURSE EXPLAIN HISTORY OF KNIFE.’ Wait until the readersof The Daily Punctilio see that!”The audience applauded in agreement, and as the operating theater filled with thesound of cheers and clapping, Violet moved on her gurney, ever so slightly. Hermouth opened a little wider, and one of her limp hands stirred briefly. The motionswere so small that only Klaus and Sunny noticed them, and they looked at oneanother hopefully. Could they keep stalling until the anesthesia completely wore off?“Enough talk,” the bald man whispered to the children. “It’s lots of fun foolinginnocent people, but we’d better get on with the operation before the orphan wakesup.”“Before I make the first incision,” Klaus said again, continuing to address theaudience as if the bald man hadn’t spoken, “I would like to say a few wordsconcerning rust.” He paused for a moment and tried to remember what he had learnedfrom a book entitled What Happens to Wet Metal, which he had received as a giftfrom his mother. “Rust is a reddish-brown coating that forms on certain metals whenthey oxidize, which is a scientific term for a chemical reaction occurring when iron orsteel comes into contact with moisture.” He held up the rusty knife for the audienceto see, and out of the corner of his eye, he saw Violet’s hand move again, just barely.“The oxidation process is integral to a cranioectomy due to the oxidative processes ofcellular mitochondria and cosmetic demystification,” he continued, trying to use asmany complicated words as he could think of.“Clap!” Sunny cried, and the audience applauded once more, although not asloudly this time.“Very impressive,” the bald associate said, glaring at Klaus over his surgical mask.“But I think these lovely people will understand the process better once the head hasactually been removed.”“Of course,” Klaus replied. “But first, we need to tenderize the vertebrae, so wecan make a clean cut. Nurse Flo, will you please nibble on Viol-I mean, on Laura V.Bleediotie’s neck?”“Yes,” Sunny said with a smile, knowing just what Klaus was up to. Standing ontiptoe, the youngest Baudelaire gave her sister a few small nibbles on the neck,hoping that it would wake Violet up. As Sunny’s teeth scraped against her skin,Violet twitched, and shut her mouth, but nothing more.“What are you doing?” the hook-handed man demanded in a furious whisper.“Perform the operation at once, or Mattathias will be furious!”“Isn’t Nurse Flo wonderful?” Klaus asked the audience, but only a few membersof the crowd clapped, and there was not a single cheer. The people in the operatingtheater were clearly eager to see some surgery rather than hear any moreexplanations.“I believe you’ve bitten her neck enough,” the bald man said. His voice wasfriendly and professional, but his eyes were gazing at the children suspiciously.“Let’s get on with the cranioectomy.”Klaus nodded, and clasped the knife in both hands, holding it up over his helplesssister. He looked at Violet’s sleeping figure and wondered if he could made a verysmall cut on Violet’s neck, one that could wake her up but wouldn’t injure her. Helooked at the rusty blade, which was shaking up and down as his hands trembled infear. And then he looked at Sunny, who had stopped nibbling on Violet’s neck andwas looking up at him with wide, wide eyes.“I can’t do it,” he whispered, and looked up at the ceiling. High above them was asquare intercom speaker that he had not noticed before, and the sight of the speakermade him think of something. “I can’t do it,” he announced, and there was a gaspfrom the crowd.The hook-handed man took a step toward the gurney, and pointed his limp, curvedglove at Klaus. The middle Baudelaire could see the sharp tip of his hook, pokingthrough the finger of the glove like a sea creature emerging from the water. “Whynot?” the hook-handed man asked quietly.Klaus swallowed, hoping he still sounded like a medical professional instead of ascared child. “Before I make the first incision, there’s one more thing that has to bedone-the most important thing we do here at Heimlich Hospital .”“And what is that?” the bald man asked. His surgical mask curled down as he gavethe children a sinister frown, but Sunny’s mask began to curl in the opposite directionas she realized what Klaus was talking about, and began to smile.“Paperwork!” she said, and to the Baudelaires’ delight, the audience began toapplaud once more.“Hooray!” called a member of V.F.D. from the back of the operating theater, as thecheering continued. “Hooray for paperwork!”Olaf’s two associates looked at one another in frustration as the Baudelaireslooked at one another in relief. “Hooray for paperwork indeed!” Klaus cried. “Wecan’t operate on a patient until her file is absolutely complete!”“I can’t believe we forgot about it, even for a moment!” a nurse cried. “Paperworkis the most important thing we do at this hospital!”“I can see the headline now,” said the reporter who had spoken earlier.“‘HEIMLICH HOSPITAL ALMOST FORGETS PAPERWORK!’ Wait until thereaders of The Daily Punctilio see that!”“Somebody call Hal,” suggested a doctor. “He’s in charge of the Library ofRecords, so he can solve this paperwork problem.”“I’ll call Hal right now!” announced a nurse, walking out of the operating theater,and the crowd clapped in support of her decision.“There’s no need to call Hal,” said the hook-handed man, holding up his hookedgloves to try to calm the crowd. “The paperwork has been taken care of, I promiseyou.”“But all surgical paperwork has to be verified by Hal,” Klaus said. “That’s thepolicy of Heimlich Hospital .”The bald man glared down at the children and spoke to them in a frighteningwhisper.“What in the world are you doing?” he asked them. “You’re going to ruineverything!”“I think Dr. Tocuna is right,” another doctor said. “That’s the policy here.”The crowd applauded again, and Klaus and Sunny looked at one another. The twoBaudelaires, of course, had no idea what the hospital’s policy was concerningsurgical paperwork, but they were beginning to see that the crowd would believe justabout anything if they thought it was being said by a medical professional.“Hal is on his way,” the nurse announced, reentering the room. “There’sapparently been some problem at the Library of Records, but he’ll come as quickly ashe can and settle this matter once and for all.”“We don’t need Hal to settle this matter once and for all,” a voice said from the farend of the theater, and the Baudelaires turned to see the slender, tottering figure ofEsmé Squalor, walking straight toward them in her stiletto-heeled shoes, with twopeople trailing dutifully behind her. These two people were both dressed in medicalcoats and surgical masks just like the Baudelaires’. Klaus and Sunny could see just abit of their pale faces above the masks and knew at once that they were the twopowder-faced assistants of Olaf.“This is the real Dr. Tocuna,” Esmé said, pointing to one of the women, “and thisis the real Nurse Flo. The two people up on this stage are impostors.”“No we’re not,” the hook-handed man said angrily.“Not you two,” Esmé said impatiently, glaring over her surgical mask at the twohenchmen. “I mean the other two people on the stage. They fooled everyone. Theyfooled doctors, nurses, volunteers, reporters, and even me- until I found the realassociates of Dr. Flacutono, that is.”“In my medical opinion,” Klaus said, “I believe this woman has lost her mind.”“I haven’t lost my mind,” Esmé said with a snarl, “but you’re about to lose yourheads, Baudelaires.”“Baudelaires?” the reporter from The Daily Punctilio asked. “The sameBaudelaires who murdered Count Omar?”“Olaf,” the bald man corrected.“I’m confused,” whined a volunteer. “There are too many people pretending to beother people.”“Allow me to explain,” Esmé said, stepping up on the stage. “I am a medicalprofessional, just like Dr. Flacutono, Dr. O. Lucafont, Dr. Tocuna, and Nurse Flo.You can see that from our medical coats and surgical masks.”“Us, too!” Sunny cried.Esmé‘s surgical mask curled up in a wicked smile. “Not for long,” she said, and inone swift gesture she ripped the masks off the Baudelaires’ faces. The crowd gaspedas the masks fluttered to the ground, and the two children saw the doctors, nurses,reporters, and regular people in the crowd look at them in horror. Only the VolunteersFighting Disease, who believed that no news was good news, did not recognize theyoungsters.“They are the Baudelaires!” a nurse exclaimed in astonishment. “I read about themin The Daily Punctilio!”“Me, too!” cried a doctor.“It’s always a pleasure to hear from our readers,” the reporter said modestly.“But there were supposed to be three murderous orphans, not two!” another doctorsaid. “Where’s the oldest one?”The hook-handed man hurriedly stepped in front of the gurney, shielding Violetfrom view. “She’s already in jail,” he said quickly.“She is not!” Klaus said, and brushed Violet’s hair out of her eyes so that everyonecould see she was not Laura V. Bleediotie. “These terrible people disguised her as apatient, so they could cut her head off!”“Don’t be ridiculous,” Esmé said. “You’re the one who was trying to cut her headoff. Look, you’re still holding the knife.”“That’s true!” the reporter cried. “I can see the headline now: ‘murderer attemptsto murder murderer.’ Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio see this!”“Tweem!” Sunny shrieked.“We’re nor murderers!” Klaus translated frantically.“If you’re not murderers,” the reporter said, holding out her microphone, “thenwhy have you sneaked into a hospital in disguise?”“I think I can explain that,” said another familiar voice, and everyone turned to seeHal enter the operating theater. In one hand he was clutching the ring of keys theBaudelaires had made from paper clips and Violet’s hair ribbon, and with the otherhand he was pointing angrily at the children.“Those three Baudelaire murderers,” he said, “pretended to be volunteers in orderto come to work in the Library of Records.”“They did?” a nurse said, as the audience gasped. “You mean they’re murderersand phony volunteers?”“No wonder they didn’t know the words to the song!” a volunteer cried.“Taking advantage of my poor eyesight,” Hal continued, pointing at his glasses,“they made these fake keys and switched it with the real one, so they could sneak into thelibrary and destroy the files about their crimes!”“We didn’t want to destroy the file,” Klaus said, “we wanted to clear our names.I’m sorry we tricked you, Hal, and I’m sorry that some of the file cabinets wereknocked over, but-”“Knocked over?” Hal repeated. “You did more than knock over cabinets.” Helooked at the children and sighed wearily, and then turned to face the audience.“These children committed arson,” he said. “The Library of Records is burning as wespeak.”C H A P T E RTwelveI am alone this evening, and I am alone because of a cruel twist of fate, a phrasewhich here means that nothing has happened the way I thought it would. Once I wasa content man, with a comfortable home, a successful career, a person I loved verymuch, and an extremely reliable typewriter, but all of those things have been takenaway from me, and now the only trace I have of those happy days is the tattoo on myleft ankle. As I sit in this very tiny room, printing these words with this very largepencil, I feel as if my whole life has been nothing but a dismal play, presented just forsomeone else’s amusement, and that the playwright who invented my cruel twist offate is somewhere far above me, laughing and laughing at his creation. It is notpleasant to feel this way, and it is doubly unpleasant if the cruel twist of fate happensto you when you are actually standing on a stage and there is actually someone, farabove you, laughing and laughing, as it was with the Baudelaire children in theoperating theater of Heimlich Hospital. The children had scarcely heard Hal’saccusation that they had burned down the Library of Records when they heard roughand familiar laughter coming out of the intercom speaker above them. The siblingshad heard this laughter when Mattathias had first captured the Quagmire triplets, andwhen he had trapped the Baudelaires in a locked Deluxe Cell. It was the triumphantlaughter of someone who has cooked up a fiendish plot and succeeded, although italways sounded like the laughter of someone who has just told an excellent joke.Because he was laughing over the scratchy intercom, Mattathias sounded as if he hada piece of aluminum foil over his mouth, but the laughter was still loud enough tohelp wear off the anesthesia, and Violet murmured something and moved her arms.“Oops,” Mattathias said, interrupting his laughter as he realized the intercom wason. “This is Mattathias, the Head of Human Resources, with an importantannouncement. There is a terrible fire in Heimlich Hospital . The fire was set in theLibrary of Records by the Baudelaire murderers, and has spread to the Sore ThroatWard, the Stubbed Toe Ward, and the Accidentally Swallowed Something YouShouldn’t Have Ward. The orphans are still at large, so do everything you can to findthem. After the murdering arsonists have been captured, you might want to rescuesome of the patients who are trapped in the fire. That is all.”“I can see the headline now,” the reporter said. ‘“baudelaire murderers torchpaperwork.’ Wait until the readers of The Daily Punctilio see this!”“Somebody tell Mattathias we’ve captured the children,” a nurse cried in triumph.“You three brats are in big trouble. You’re murderers, arsonists, and spuriousdoctors.”“That’s not true,” Klaus said, but as he looked around he feared that no one wouldbelieve him. He looked at the spurious key ring in Hal’s hands, that he and hissiblings had used to sneak into the Library of Records. He looked at his medical coat,which he had used to disguise himself as a doctor. And he looked at the rusty blade inhis own hands, which he had just been holding over his sister. Klaus rememberedwhen he and his sisters were living with Uncle Monty, and brought several objects toMr. Poe as evidence of Olaf’s treacherous plot. Because of these small objects, Olafwas placed under arrest, and now Klaus was afraid that the same thing would happento the Baudelaires.“Surround them!” the hook-handed man called, pointing at the children with onecurved glove. “But be careful. The bookworm still has the knife!” Olaf’s associatesspread out in a circle and slowly began walking toward the youngsters at all angles.Sunny whimpered in fright, and Klaus picked her up and put her on the gurney.“Arrest the Baudelaires!” a doctor cried.“That’s what we’re doing, you fool!” Esmé replied impatiently, but when sheturned her head to the Baudelaires they saw her wink above her surgical mask.“We’re going to capture only one of you,” she said, in a quiet voice so theaudience wouldn’t hear her. With two long fingernailed hands she reached down toher stiletto heels. “This in footwear isn’t just useful for making me look glamorousand feminine,” she said, removing the shoes and pointing them at the children.“These stilettos are perfect for slitting children’s throats. Two bratty little Baudelaireswill be killed while trying to escape from justice, leaving one bratty little Baudelaireto give us the fortune.”“You’ll never get your hands on our fortune,” Klaus said, “or your shoes on ourthroats.”“We’ll see,” Esmé said, and swung her left shoe at Klaus as if it were a sword.Klaus ducked quickly and felt the whoosh!of air as the blade swept over him.“She’s trying to kill us!” Klaus shouted to the audience. “Can’t you see? These arethe real murderers!”“No one will ever believe you,” Esmé said in a sinister whisper, and swung herright shoe at Sunny, who moved away just in time.“I don’t believe you!” shouted Hal. “My eyesight might not be what it used to be,but I can see your phony medical coat.”“I don’t believe you, either!” a nurse cried. “I can see that rusty knife!”Esmé swung both shoes at the same time, but they collided in midair instead ofhitting the children. “Why don’t you surrender?” she hissed. “We’ve finally trappedyou, just as you trapped Olaf all those other times.”“Now you know what it feels like to be a villain,” the bald man chuckled. “Movecloser, everyone! Mattathias told me that whoever grabs them first gets to choosewhere to go for dinner tonight!”“Is that so?” the hook-handed man asked. “Well, I’m in the mood for pizza.” Heswung a rubber-gloved hook at Klaus, who fell back against the gurney, rolling it outof the evil man’s reach.“I feel more like Chinese food,” one of the powder-faced women said. “Let’s go tothat place where we celebrated the Quagmire kidnapping.”“I want to go to Cafe Salmonella,” Esmé snarled, disentangling her shoes.Klaus pushed against the gurney again, wheeling it in the other direction as thecircle of associates closed in. He held the rusty knife up for protection, but the middleBaudelaire did not think he could use a weapon, even on people as wicked as these. IfCount Olaf had been trapped, he would not have hesitated to swing the rusty blade atthe people who were surrounding him, but despite what the bald man had said, Klausdid not feel like a villain. He felt like someone who needed to escape, and as hepushed against the gurney again, he knew how he was going to do it.“Get back!” Klaus cried. “This knife is very sharp!”“You can’t kill all of us,” the hook-handed man replied. “In fact, I doubt you havethe courage to kill anyone.”“It doesn’t take courage to kill someone,” Klaus said. “It takes a severe lack ofmoral stamina.”At the mention of the phrase “severe lack of moral stamina,” which here means“cruel selfishness combined with a love of violence,” Olaf’s associates laughed indelight.“Your fancy words won’t save you now, you twerp,” Esmé said.“That’s true,” Klaus admitted. “What will save me now is a bed on wheels used totransport hospital patients.”Without another word, Klaus tossed the rusty knife to the floor, startling Olaf’sassociates into stepping back. The circle of people with a severe lack of moralstamina was spread out a little more, just for a moment, but a moment was all theBaudelaires needed. Klaus jumped onto the gurney, which began to roll quicklytoward the square metal door they had come in. A cry rose from the audience as theBaudelaires sped past Olaf’s associates.“Get them!” the hook-handed man cried. “They’re getting away!”“They won’t get away from me!” Hal promised, and grabbed the gurney justbefore it reached the door. The gurney slowed to a halt, and for a second Sunny foundherself face-to-face with the old man. Butterflies fluttered in the youngestBaudelaire’s stomach as he glared at her from behind his tiny glasses. Unlike Olaf’sassociates, Hal was not an evil person, of course. He was merely someone who lovedthe Library of Records and was trying to capture the people he believed had set it onfire, and it pained Sunny to see that he thought she was an evil criminal, instead of anunlucky infant. But she knew she did not have time to explain to Hal what had reallyhappened. She scarcely had time to say a single word, and yet that is precisely whatthe youngest Baudelaire did.“Sorry,” Sunny said to Hal, and gave him a small smile. Then she opened hermouth a little wider, and bit Hal’s hand as gently as she could, so that he would let goof the gurney without getting hurt.“Ow!” Hal said, and let go. “The baby bit me!” he shouted to the crowd.“Are you hurt?” a nurse asked.“No,” Hal replied, “but I let go of the gurney. They’re rolling out the door!”The Baudelaires rolled out the door, with Violet’s eyes flickering open, Klaussteering the gurney, and Sunny hanging on for dear life. The children rolled down thehallways of the Surgical Ward, dodging around surprised doctors and other medicalprofessionals.“Attention!” announced Mattathias’s voice over the intercom. “This is Mattathias,the Head of Human Resources! The Baudelaire murderers and arsonists are escapingon a gurney! Capture them at once! Also, the fire is spreading throughout thehospital! You might want to evacuate!”“Noriz!” Sunny shouted.“I’m going as fast as I can!” Klaus cried, dangling his legs over the side of thegurney to scoot it along. “Violet, wake up, please! You can help push!”“I’m try … ing … .” Violet muttered, squinting around her. The anesthesia madeeverything seem faint and foggy, and it was almost impossible for her to speak, letalone move.“Door!” Sunny shrieked, pointing to the door that led out of the Surgical Ward.Klaus steered the gurney in that direction and rode past Olaf’s fat associate wholooked like neither a man nor a woman, who was still dressed as a spurious guard.With a terrible roar, it began to give chase, walking in huge, lumbering steps, as theBaudelaires raced toward a small group of Volunteers Fighting Disease. The beardedvolunteer, who was playing some very familiar chords on his guitar, looked up to seethe gurney wheel past them.“Those must be those murderers Mattathias was talking about!” he said. “Comeon, everyone, let’s help that guard capture them!”“Sounds good to me,” another volunteer agreed. “I’m a bit tired of singing thatsong, if you want to know the truth.”Klaus steered the gurney around a corner, as the volunteers joined the overweightassociate in pursuit. “Wake up,” he begged Violet, who was looking around her in aconfused way. “Please, Violet!”“Stairs!” Sunny said, pointing to a staircase. Klaus turned the gurney in thedirection his sister indicated, and the children began to roll down the stairs, bouncingup and down with each step. It was a fast, slippery ride that reminded the children ofsliding down the bannisters at 667 Dark Avenue , or colliding with Mr. Poe’sautomobile when they were living with Uncle Monty. At a curve in the staircase,Klaus scraped his shoes against the floor to stop the gurney, and then leaned over tolook at one of the hospital’s confusing maps.“I’m trying to figure out if we should go through that door,” he said, pointing at adoor marked “Ward for People with Nasty Rashes,” “or continue down the staircase.”“Dleen!” Sunny cried, which meant “We can’t continue down the staircase-look!”Klaus looked, and even Violet managed to focus enough to look down whereSunny was pointing. Down the staircase, just past the next landing, was a flickering,orange glow, as if the sun was rising out of the hospital basement, and a few wisps ofdark black smoke were curling up the staircase like the tentacles of some ghostlyanimal. It was an eerie sight that had haunted the Baudelaires in their dreams, eversince that fateful day at the beach when all their trouble began. For a moment, thethree children were unable to do anything but stare down at the orange glow and thetentacles of smoke, and think about all they had lost because of what they werelooking at.“Fire,” Violet said faintly.“Yes,” Klaus said. “It’s spreading up this staircase. We’ve got to turn and go backupstairs.”From upstairs, the Baudelaires listened to the associate roar again, and heard thebearded volunteer reply.“We’ll help you capture them,” he said. “Lead the way, sir-or is it madam? I can’ttell.”“No up,” Sunny said.“I know,” Klaus said. “We can’t go up the stairs and we can’t go down. We have togo into the Ward for People with Nasty Rashes.”Having made this rash decision, Klaus turned the gurney and wheeled it throughthe door, just as Mattathias’s voice came through on the intercom. “This isMattathias, the Head of Human Resources,” he said hurriedly. “All associates of Dr.Flacutono , continue to search for the children! Everyone else, gather in front of thehospital-either we will catch the murderers as they escape, or they’ll be burned to acrisp!”The children rolled into the Ward for People with Nasty Rashes and saw thatMattathias was right. The gurney was racing down a hallway, and the children couldsee another orange glow at the far end of it. The children heard another roar behindthem as the overweight associate lumbered down the stairs. The siblings were trappedin the middle of a hallway that led only to a fiery death or to Olaf’s clutches.Klaus leaned down and stopped the gurney. “We’d better hide,” he said, jumpingto the floor. “It’s too dangerous to be rolling around like this.”“Where?” Sunny asked, as Klaus helped her down.“Someplace close by,” Klaus said, grabbing Violet’s arm. “The anesthesia is stillwearing off, so Violet can’t walk too far.”“I’ll … try… .” Violet murmured, stepping unsteadily off the gurney and leaningon Klaus. The children looked around and saw that the nearest door was marked“Supply Closet.”“Glaynop?” Sunny asked.“I guess so,” Klaus said doubtfully, opening the door with one hand whilebalancing Violet with the other. “I don’t know what we can do in a supply closet, butat least it’ll hide us for a few moments.”Klaus and Sunny helped their sister through the door and locked it behind them.Except for a small window in the corner, the closet looked identical to the one whereKlaus and Sunny had hidden to decipher the anagram in the patient list. It was a smallroom, with only one flickering lightbulb hanging from the ceiling, and there were arow of white medical coats hanging from hooks, a rusty sink, huge cans of alphabetsoup, and small boxes of rubber bands, but as the two younger Baudelaires looked atthese supplies, they did not look like devices for translating anagrams andimpersonating medical professionals. Klaus and Sunny looked at all these objects,and then at their older sister. To their relief, Violet’s face was a bit less pale, and hereyes were a bit less confused, which was a very good sign. The eldest Baudelaireneeded to be as awake as she could be, because the items in the closet were lookingless and less like supplies, and more and more like materials for an invention.something even with substantial interference, a phrase which here means “somethinggetting in her way.”The eldest Baudelaire had proved the judge right dozens of times, of course,inventing everything from a lockpick to a welding torch with the substantialinterference of being in a hurry and not having the right tools. But Violet thought shehad never had as much substantial interference as the lingering effects of anesthesiaas she squinted at the objects in the supply closet and tried to focus on what hersiblings were saying.A Series of Unfortunate Events 8 - TheHostile Hospital“Violet,” Klaus said, “I know that the anesthesia hasn’t completely worn off, butwe need you to try to invent something.”“Yes,” Violet said faintly, rubbing her eyes with her hands. “I … know.”“We’ll help you all we can,” Klaus said. “Just tell us what to do. The fire isconsuming this entire hospital, and we have to get out of here quickly.”“Rallam,” Sunny added, which meant “And Olaf’s associates are chasing us.”“Open … the window,” Violet said with difficulty, pointing to the window in thecorner.Klaus helped Violet lean against the wall, so he could step over to the windowwithout letting her fall. He opened the window and looked outside. “It looks likewe’re on the third floor,” he said, “or maybe the fourth. There’s smoke in the air, soit’s hard to tell. We’re not so high up, but it’s still too far to jump.”“Climb?” Sunny asked.“There’s an intercom speaker right below us,” Klaus said. “I suppose we couldhang on to that and climb down to the bushes below, but we’d be climbing in front ofa huge crowd. The doctors and nurses are helping the patients escape, and there’sHal, and that reporter from The Daily Punctilio and-”The middle Baudelaire was interrupted by a faint sound coming from outside thehospital.“We are Volunteers Fighting Disease,And we’re cheerful all day long.If someone said that we were sad,That person would be wrong.”“And the Volunteers Fighting Disease,” Klaus continued. “They’re waiting at theentrance to the hospital, just like Mattathias told them to. Can you invent somethingto fly over them?”Violet frowned and closed her eyes, standing still for a moment as the volunteerscontinued singing.“We visit people who are sick,And try to make them smile,Even if their noses bleed,Or if they cough up bile.”“Violet?” Klaus asked. “You’re not falling asleep again, are you?”“No,” Violet said. “I’m … thinking. We need … to distract … the crowd … beforewe … climb down.”The children heard a faint roar from beyond the closet door. “Kesalf,” Sunny said,which meant “That’s Olaf’s associate. It sounds like it’s entering the Ward for Peoplewith Nasty Rashes. We’d better hurry.”“Klaus,” Violet said, and opened her eyes. “Open those boxes … of rubber bands.Start to string … them together… to make … a cord.”“Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon .”Klaus looked down and watched the volunteers giving balloons out to the hospitalpatients who had been evacuated from the hospital. “But how will we distract thecrowd?” he asked.“I … don’t know,” Violet admitted, and looked down at the floor. “I’m having …trouble focusing my … inventing skills.”“Help,” Sunny said.“Don’t cry for help, Sunny,” Klaus said. “No one will hear us.”“Help,” Sunny insisted, and took off her white medical coat. Opening her mouthwide, she bit down on the fabric, ripping a small strip off the coat with her teeth.Then she held up the strip of white cloth, and handed it to Violet.“Ribbon,” she said, and Violet gave her a weary smile. With unsteady fingers, theeldest Baudelaire tied her hair up to keep it out of her eyes, using the thin strip offabric instead of a hair ribbon. She closed her eyes again, and then nodded.“I know … it’s a bit silly,” Violet said. “I think … it did help, Sunny. Klaus … getto work … on the rubber bands. Sunny-can you open … one of those cans of soup?”“Treen,” Sunny said, which meant “Yes- I opened one earlier, to help decode theanagrams.”“Good,” Violet replied. With her hair up in a ribbon-even if the ribbon wasspurious-her voice sounded stronger and more confident. “We need … an empty can… as quickly as … possible.”“We visit people who are ill,And try to make them laugh,Even when the doctor saysHe must saw them in half.We sing and sing all night and day,And then we sing some more .We sing to boys with broken bonesAnd girls whose throats are sore.”As the members of V.F.D. continued their cheerful song, the Baudelaires workedquickly. Klaus opened a box of rubber bands and began stringing them together,Sunny began to gnaw at the top of a can of soup, and Violet went to the sink andsplashed water on her face to try to make herself as alert as possible. Finally, by thetime the volunteers were singing“Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.”Klaus had a long cord of rubber bands curled at his feet like a snake, Sunny hadtaken the top off a can of soup and was pouring it down the sink, and Violet wasstaring anxiously at the bottom of the closet door, from which a very thin wisp ofsmoke was crawling out.“The fire is in the hallway,” Violet said, as the children heard another roar from thehallway, “and so is Olaf’s henchperson. We have only a few moments.”“The cord is all ready,” Klaus said, “but how can we distract the crowd with anempty soup can?”“It’s not an empty soup can,” Violet said, “not anymore. Now it’s a spuriousintercom. Sunny, poke one hole in the bottom of the can.”“Pietrisycamollaviadelrechiotemexity,” Sunny said, but she did as Violet askedand poked her sharpest tooth through the bottom of the can.“Now,” Violet said, “you two hold this near the window. Don’t let the crowd see it.They have to think my voice is coming out of the intercom.”Klaus and Sunny held the empty soup can near the window, and Violet leaned inand stuck her head inside it, as if it were a mask. The eldest Baudelaire took a deepbreath to gather her courage, and then she began to speak. From inside the can hervoice sounded scratchy and faint, as if she were talking with a piece of aluminum foilover her mouth, which was precisely how she wanted to sound.“Attention!” Violet announced, before the volunteers could sing the verse aboutsinging to men with measles. “This is Babs. Mattathias has resigned due to personalproblems, so I am once again the Head of Human Resources. The Baudelairemurderers and arsonists have been spotted in the unfinished wing of the hospital. Werequire everyone’s assistance in making sure they do not escape. Please rush overthere right away. That is all.”Violet pulled her head out of the can, and looked at her siblings. “Do you think itworked?” she asked.Sunny opened her mouth to answer, but she was interrupted by the voice of thebearded volunteer.“Did you hear that?” the children heard him say. “The criminals are over in theunfinished half of the hospital. Come on, everyone.”“Maybe some of us should stay here at the front entrance, just in case,” said avoice the Baudelaires recognized as Hal’s.Violet stuck her head back into the can. “Attention!” she announced. “This isBabs, the Head of Human Resources. No one should stay at the front entrance to thehospital. It’s too dangerous. Proceed at once to the unfinished wing. That is all.”“I can see the headline now,” said the reporter from The DailyPunctilio.“‘MURDERERS CAPTURED IN UNFINISHED HALF OF HOSPITALBY WELL-ORGANIZED MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS.’ Wait until the readers ofThe Daily Punctilio see that!”There was a cheer from the crowd, which faded as they walked away from thefront of Heimlich Hospital .“It worked,” Violet said. “We fooled them. We’re as good at tricking people asOlaf is.”“And at disguises,” Klaus said.“Anagrams,” Sunny said.“And lying to people,” Violet said, thinking of Hal, and the shopkeeper at LastChance General Store and all the Volunteers Fighting Disease. “Maybe we’rebecoming villains after all.”“Don’t say that,” Klaus said. “We’re not villains. We’re good people. We had to dotricky things in order to save our lives.”“Olaf has to do tricky things,” Violet said, “to save his life.”“Different,” Sunny said.“Maybe it’s not different,” Violet said sadly. “Maybe-”Violet was interrupted by an angry roar coming from just outside the closet door.Olaf’s overweight assistant had reached the supply closet and was now fumbling atthe door with its enormous hands.“We can discuss this later,” Klaus said. “We have to get out of here right now.”“We’re not going to climb,” Violet said, “not with such a skinny, rubbery cord.We’re going to bounce.”“Bounce?” Sunny asked doubtfully.“Plenty of people bounce from high places on long, rubbery cords just for fun,”Violet said, “so I’m sure we can do it to escape. I’ll tie the cord to the faucet with theDevil’s Tongue knot, and we’ll each take turns jumping out the window. The cordshould catch us before we hit the ground, and bounce us up, and down, and up, anddown, more and more gently each time. Eventually we’ll get to the bottom safely, andthen we’ll toss it back up to the next person.”“It sounds risky,” Klaus said. “I’m not sure the cord is long enough.”“It is risky,” Violet agreed, “but not as risky as a fire.”The associate rattled the door furiously, making a large crack right near the lock.Black smoke began to pour through the crack as if the assistant were pouring ink intothe closet, as Violet hurriedly tied the cord to the faucet and then tugged on it to makesure it was secure.“I’ll go first,” she said. “I invented it, so I’d better test it.”“No,” Klaus said. “We’re not taking turns.”“Together,” Sunny agreed.“If we all go down together,” Violet said, “I’m not sure the cord will hold.”“We’re not leaving anyone behind,” Klaus said firmly. “Not this time. Either weall escape, or none of us do.”“But if none of us do,” Violet said tearfully, “then there won’t be any Baudelairesleft. Olaf will have won.”Klaus reached into his pocket and brought out a sheet of paper. He unfolded it, andhis sisters could see that it was page thirteen of the Snicket file. He pointed to thephotograph of the Baudelaire parents and the sentence that was printed below it.“‘Because of the evidence discussed on page nine,’” he read out loud, “‘expertsnow suspect that there may in fact be one survivor of the fire, but the survivor’swhereabouts are unknown.’ We’ve got to survive, too-so we can find out whathappened, and bring Olaf to justice.”“But if we take turns,” Violet said frantically, “there’s a better chance that one ofus will survive.”“We’re not leaving anyone behind,” Klaus said firmly. “That’s what makes usdifferent from Olaf.”Violet thought for a moment, and nodded. “You’re right,” she said.Olaf’s associate kicked at the door, and the crack grew bigger. The children couldsee a tiny orange light shining in the hallway and realized that the fire and theassociate must have reached the door at the same time.“I’m scared,” Violet said.“I’m frightened,” Klaus said.“Sheer terror,” Sunny said, and the associate kicked the door again, forcing a fewsparks through the crack in the door. The Baudelaires looked at one another, and eachchild grabbed the rubber band cord with one hand. With their other hands theyclasped one another, and then, without another word, they leaped out of the windowof Heimlich Hospital .STOPThere are many things in this world I do not know. I do not know how butterflies getout of their cocoons without damaging their wings. I do not know why anyone would boilvegetables when roasting them is tastier. I do not know how to make olive oil, and I do notknow why dogs bark before an earthquake, and I do not know why some peoplevoluntarily choose to climb mountains where it is freezing and difficult to breathe, or livein the suburbs, where the coffee is watery and all of the houses look alike. I do not knowwhere the Baudelaire children are now, or if they are safe or if they are even alive. Butthere are some things I do know, and one of them is that the window of the supply closetin the Ward for People with Nasty Rashes of Heimlich Hospital was not on the third flooror the fourth floor, as Klaus had guessed. The window was on the second floor, so thatwhen the three children dropped through the smoky air, clinging to the rubber band cordfor dear life, Violet’s invention worked perfectly. Like a yo-yo, the children bouncedgently up and down, brushing their feet against one of the bushes planted in front of thehospital, and after a few bounces it was safe to drop to the ground and hug each other withrelief.“We made it,” Violet said. “It was a close call, but we survived.”The Baudelaires looked behind them at the hospital, and saw just how close a callit had been. The building looked like a fiery ghost, with great bursts of flame comingfrom the windows, and oceans of smoke pouring from great gaping holes in thewalls. The children could hear glass shattering as the windows burned away, and thecrackle of wood as the floors fell through. It occurred to the children that their ownhouse must have looked like this on the day it burned down, and they stepped backfrom the burning building and huddled together as the air grew thick with ashes andsmoke, obscuring the hospital from view.“Where can we go?” Klaus asked, shouting over the roar of the fire. “Any minutenow, the crowd will figure out that we’re not in the unfinished half of the hospital,and return here.”“Run!” Sunny shrieked.“But we can’t even see where we’re going!” Violet cried. “The whole area isfilling up with smoke!”“Stay down!” Klaus said, dropping to the ground and beginning to crawl. “In TheEncyclopedia of Escaping Arson, the author wrote that there’s more oxygen closer tothe ground, so we can breathe more easily. But we need to get to some kind of shelterright away.”“Where will we find some kind of shelter, in this empty landscape?” Violet asked,crawling behind her brother. “The hospital is the only building for miles, and it’sburning to the ground!”“I don’t know,” Klaus said, coughing loudly, “but we can’t breathe in this smokefor long!”“Hurry up!” the Baudelaires heard a voice call out of the smoke. “This way!” Along, black shape emerged from the smoky air, and the children saw it was an automobile,pulling up in front of the hospital. An automobile, of course, is a kind of shelter, but thesiblings froze on the ground and dared not crawl an inch farther toward the car.“Hurry up!” Olaf’s voice said again. “Hurry up or I’ll leave you behind!”“I’m coming, darling.” From behind them, the Baudelaires heard the reply ofEsmé Squalor. “Lucafont and Flacutono are with me, and the ladies are followingbehind. I had them take all the medical coats we could find, in case we need them forcostumes again.”“Good thinking,” Olaf replied. “Can you see the car in the smoke?”“Yes,” Esmé said, her voice growing closer. The Baudelaires could hear the oddfootsteps of her stiletto-heeled shoes as she strode toward the automobile. “Open thetrunk, darling, and we’ll put the costumes in.”“Oh, all right,” Olaf sighed, and the children saw the tall figure of their enemy stepout of the car.“Wait up, Olaf!” the bald man cried.“You fool,” Olaf replied. “I told you to call me Mattathias until we leave thehospital grounds. Hurry up and get in the car. The Snicket file wasn’t in the Libraryof Records, but I think I know where I can find it. Once we destroy those thirteenpages, there’ll be no stopping us.”“We’ve got to destroy the Baudelaires, too,” Esmé said.“We would have destroyed them, if all of you hadn’t messed up my plan,” he said,“but never mind that. We have to get out of here before the authorities come.”“But your largest assistant is still in the Rash Ward, looking for the brats!” the baldman said, and the children heard him open the door of the automobile.The hook-handed man spoke up, and the children could see his odd shape in thesmoke as he got into the car after the bald assistant. “The Ward for People with NastyRashes is entirely destroyed,” he said. “I hope the big one got out O.K.”“We’re not going to wait around to find out if that fool lived or died,” Olaf snarled.“As soon as the ladies can put the costumes in the trunk, we’ll get out of here. It’sbeen splendid setting this fire, but we’ve got to find the Snicket file as soon aspossible, before You-Know-Who does.”“V.F.D.!” Esmé said with a cackle. “The real V.F.D., that is, not those ridiculoussingers!”The trunk opened with a creak, and the children saw the shadow of the trunk’s lidflip open into the smoky air. The lid was peppered with tiny holes-bullet holes, itlooked like, undoubtedly from being pursued by the police. Olaf strode back to thecar and continued giving orders.“Get out of the front seat, you idiots,” Olaf said. “My girlfriend sits in front, andthe rest of you can pile in the back.”“Yes, boss,” the bald man replied.“We have the costumes, Mattathias.” The voice of one of the powder-faced womenwas faint in the smoke. “Just give us a few seconds to reach the car.”Violet leaned as close as she could to her siblings so she could whisper to themwithout being heard. “We’ve got to go in there,” she said.“Where?” Klaus whispered in reply.“In the trunk,” Violet replied. “It’s our only chance to get out of here withoutgetting captured-or worse.”“Culech!” Sunny said in a horrified whisper, which meant something along thelines of “Getting in the trunk is the same thing as getting captured!”“We’ve got to get the rest of the Snicket file before Olaf does,” Violet said, “orwe’ll never be able to clear our names.”“Or bring Olaf to justice,” Klaus said.“Ezan,” Sunny said, which meant “Or find out if one of our parents really survivedthe fire.”“The only way we can do all those things,” Violet said, “is to get in the trunk ofthat car.”Olaf’s voice floated through the smoke, as deceitful and dangerous as the fireitself. “Get in the car this instant!” he ordered his associates. “I’m going to leave atthe count of three.”The Baudelaires gripped each other’s hands so firmly that it hurt to hang on.“Think of everything we have survived together,” Violet whispered. “We’ve livedthrough countless unfortunate events, only to find ourselves alone. If one of ourparents has survived, it’ll all be worthwhile. We have to find them if it’s the last thingwe do.”“One!”Klaus looked at the gaping trunk, which looked like the mouth of some dark andsmoky beast, eager to devour him and his siblings. “You’re right,” he murmuredfinally. “We can’t stay in this smoky air much longer, or we’ll become asphyxiated.The shelter of the trunk is our only hope.”“Yes!” Sunny whispered.“Two!”The Baudelaire children stood up and scurried into the trunk of Count Olaf’s car.The trunk was damp and smelled terrible, but the children crawled deep into itsdepths so they wouldn’t be seen.“Wait!” the powder-faced woman called, and the Baudelaires felt the slap of themedical coats being tossed on top of them. “I don’t want to be left behind! I can’tbreathe out here!”“Will we be able to breathe in here?” Violet asked Klaus as quietly as she could.“Yes,” Klaus said. “Air will come through the bullet holes. This is not the sort ofshelter I had in mind, but I guess it might do.”“Golos,” Sunny said, which meant “It’ll have to do, until something better comesalong,” and her siblings nodded.“Three!”The trunk slammed closed, leaving them in utter darkness, and their shelter rattledand shook as Olaf started the engine and began to drive across the landscape, whichwas as flat and desolate as ever. But the children could not see outside, of course. Inthe blackness of the trunk, they could not see anything at all. They could only heartheir long, shivering breaths as the air rushed through the bullet holes, and feel theirshoulders tremble as they shivered in fear. It was not the sort of shelter the childrenhad in mind, never in their entire lives, but as they huddled together they guessed itmight do. For the Baudelaire orphans-if indeed they were still orphans-the shelter ofCount Olaf’s trunk would have to do, until something better came along.About the AuthorLEMONY SNICKET is widely regarded as one of the most difficult children’s authorsto capture and imprison. Recently, he had to give up on his hobbies due to laws regardingmusical performances in mountainous terrain. Most things written about him are not true,but this is.BRETT HELQUIST was born in Ganado, Arizona, grew up in Orem, Utah, and nowlives in New York City, where among other noble pursuits, he translates Mr. Snicket’sobscure findings into the images that help readers understand the horror of theBaudelaires’ plight.To my kind editorI hope that this letter is not mangled by the ferocious and deadly … in which I amhiding now. … thirteen hundred nineteen and one-half miles (DOOBY kilometers)from the restaraunt where you celebrated your most recent birthday … may thenexchange (at a near laundromat or jewelry store for … with … a long mustache. Shewill give you the complete manuscript of THE CARNIVOROUS CARNIVAL, alongwith a satchel contain … — under which no circumstances should you repair — …he last … survivor of the Baudel … a sketch … of Chabo, the Wolf Baby, andMadame Lulu … or at least, what is left o ... Remember, you are my last hope that the tales of the Baudelaire orphans canfinally be told to the general public.With all due respect,Lemony Snicket